============================================================
Weird Tales
Volume 15, Number 1
Date: January 1930
============================================================
============================================================
TABLE OF CONTENTS

  1. "Dead Man’s Hate Robert E" by Howard
  2. "Newgate Ghost William R" by Hickey
  3. "The Tabernacle Henry S" by Whitehead
============================================================
============================================================
DEAD MAN’S HATE ROBERT E
by Howard
============================================================

the dark, gigantic cone upon the had planned to be the life-masters of gi'ay-strewn summit of which there the world, and whose plans had reaped lay the twisted bodies of the men who but death.

Dead Man’s Hate

By ROBERT E. HOWARD

They hanged John Farrel in the dawn amid the market-place;

At dusk came Adam Brand to him and spat upon his face.

“Ho, neighbors all,” spake Adam Brand, “seeye John Parrel’s fate! 'Tis proven here a hempen noose is stronger than man ’s hate!

“Por heard ye not John Parrel’s vow to be avenged on me Come life or death? See how he hangs high on the gallows tree!”

Yet never a word the people spake, in fear and wild surprize —

For the grisly corpse raised up its head and stared with sightless eyes,

And with strange motions, slow and stiff, pointed at Adam Brand And clambered down the gibbet tree, the noose within its hand.

With gaping mouth stood Adam. Brand like a statue eaiwed of stone, Till the dead man laid a clammy hand hard on his shoulder-bone.

Then Adam shrieked like a soul in hell; the red blood left his face And he reeled away in a drunken run through the screaming marketplace;

And close behind, the dead man came with face like a mummy’s mask,

And the dead joints cracked and the stiff legs creaked with their unwonted task.

Men fled before the flying twain or shrank with bated breath,

And they saw on the face of Adam Brand the seal set there by death. He reeled on buckling legs that failed, yet on and on he fled;

So through the shuddering market-place, the dying fled the dead.

At the riverside fell Adam Brand with a scream that rent the skies; Across him fell John Parrel’s corpse, nor ever the twain did rise. There was no wound on Adam Brand but liis brow was cold and damp,

For the fear of death had blown out his life as a witch blows out ar lamp.

His lips were writhed in a horrid grin like a fiend ’s on Satan ’s coals, And the men that looked on his face that day, his stare still haunts their souls.

Such was the doom of Adam Brand, a strange, unearthly fate;

For sti’onger than death or hempen noose are the fires of a dead man’s hate.

'A huge pet cat made playful pounces at his trousers;”

T he murderer’s hair lifted at the back of his neck. A. crawling sensation spread down his spine. There was something moving in the room! It was pitch-dark, with vague rectangles of faint grayislmess where windows opened upon the rainy night outside. The murderer had left this room half an hour before, maybe only twenty minutes before. He’d gone plunging away through the darkness, knowing that before dawn the rain would have washed away the tiretracks of his car. And then he’d remembered something. He’d come back to pick up a thing he’d left, the only thing that could possibly throw suspicion upon him. And there was something moving in the room!

His scalp crawled horribly. He had to clench his teeth to keep them from chattering audibly.... He heard the sound again! Something alive in the room. Something furtive and horrible and — and terribly playful! It

was amused, that live thing in the room. It was diverted’by the one gasp of pure terror he had given at the first sound it made.

The murdeiw stood teetering upon his toes, with his hand outstretched and touching the wall, fighting against an unnamable fear. He was in the right house, certainly. And in the right raom. He could catch the faint acrid reek of burnt smokeless powder. His senses were uncannily acute. He could even distinguish the staling scent of the cigarette he had lighted when he was here before.... This was the room in which he had killed a man. Yonder, by the wide blotch of formless gray, there was a chair, and in that chair thei?e was an old man, hxiddled up, with a bullet- wound in his throat and a spurt of deepening crimson overlaying his shirt-front. The murderer who stood by the wall,' sick with fear, had killed him no more than half an Jhour before.




And there could not be anj^one else in the house. The murderer listened, stifling his breathing to deepen the silence. Nothing but the shrill and senseless singing of a canary-bird that was one of the dead man’s two pets. The bird stopped, began again drowsily, and was silent. In the utter.stillness that followed, the vastly muffled purring of his own motor-car reached the murderer, and the slow, drizzling soimd of rain, even the curious humming of the telephone wires that led away from the house.

But then he heard the noise, again,.such a sound as might have been made by a man drumming softly and meditatively upon a table with his fingertips. A tiny sound, an infinitely tiny sound, but the sound of something alive. The murderer stifled a gasp. It came from the chair where the dead man was sitting!

There was cold sweat upon the forehead of the man by the wall. It seemed, insanely, as if the dead figure, sitting upright in its chair, had opened its eyes to stare at him through the blackness, while the stiff fingei’s tapped upon the table-cloth as they had done in life.

A surge of despairing hatred came to the murderer, while icy-cold crawlings went dovTi his spine. Those finger-tappings... those furtive, stingy fingei’s that were ahvays so restless, always touching something, always fumblmg desirou.sly at something.... Why, he’d shot the old man when he was fumbling with his cigai’ette-case, avidly plucking out a cigarette to smoke in secret, being too miserly to buy even the cheapest of tobacco for himself.

The murderer felt some of his fear vanish. He’d shot the old man. Killed him. He was dead. He’d made only one mistake. He’d made sure the bullet went just where he intended, and then he’d fled, out to the ear and plunged away. No need to stop and rob. The dead man was the murderer’s uncle, and the state and

the courts would deliver his wealth in time. Everything was all right, except for one mi.st^e, and he’d come back to rectify that.

He deliberately famied the hatred that had helped so much in the commission of his crime, and now was crowding out his terror. He had only to think of the old man to grow furious. Rich — and a miser. Old — and a.skinflint. He wouldn’t keep a servant, because servants cost money. He wouldn’t keep a watch-dog, because watch-dogs had to be fed. It was typical of him that he kept two pets as an economical jest — a canary because it would eat bread-crumbs, and a cat because it would feed itself. The mui’derer by the wall had seen the old man chuckling at sight of the huge cat stalking a robin upon the la^vn....

T he murderer moved forward confidently, now. He’d shot his uncle as the old man was fumblmg cigarettes out of the nephew’s case. He’d made sure that death had come, and he’d fled — biit without the cigarettecase. Now he’d come back for it. It had been foolish of him to feel afraid....

He heard the drumming of reflective finger-tips upon the table-top. Stark teri’or swept over him again, and he pressed on the button of his flashlight.... The old, unpreposses.sing figure was outlined in full. Grayed, unkempt hair, bushy eyebrows, head bent down, hand extended toward the cigarette-case on the table.... All was as it should have been. But the coat, the long, dingy coat that hung do'wn from the extended ai’m — that was moving! Muscles in the sleeve had been flexing and unflexing. The coat was flapping back and forth. The man in the chair was alive!

With a snarl, the murderer sprang fonvard, his hands outstretched. An instant later he fell back with a rattle in his throat. The flesh he had touched was cold and already rigid.


/


He frtood still, fighting down an impulse to scream. The man in the chair was dead. And then he heard that insane, deliberate tapping again. He could feel tire dead eyes upon him, gazing up from a l)ent-forward head and looking throu^ the bushy brows. A strange, malevolent.ioy was possessii^ the dead thing. It was gazing at him, tapping meditatively, while it debated a suitable revenge for its oum death.

Tlie murderer cursed hoareely and groped for the table. He was livid with terror and a queer, helpless rage. He hated his victim, dead, as he had never hated him living. His fingers touched the cigarette-case — and it was jerked from beneath his touch.

The murderer choked. He had to have the cigarette-case. It was proof of his presence — ^proof against which his carefully prepared alibi would be of 110 use. He’d bemi seen to use it no more than an hour since, when he left the house in which he was a weekend guest to come hurtling across country for his murder. He had to liave it!

And the tapping came again, insanely gleeful, diabolically reflective. The man in the chair was beyond reach. No more harm could come to him. And he could toy with the living man as a cat toys with a mouse.

Numb with unreasoning terror of the thing that was dead, and yet moved, that was not two yards away and yet was removed by all the gulf between the living and the dead, the murderer pressed the flashlight button again. He clenched his teeth as he seemed to sense the stoppage of a stealthy movement by the thing in the chair. His cigarette-case was gone, missing from the table.

The flashlight beam swept about the room in a last flare of common sense. It was empty. No one, nothing.... Nothing in the house except the dead man, to seize that one small article wMch would damn the murderer.

He remembered suddenly and switched off the light. There were neighbors. Not near neighbors, but jjeople who would notice the glow of a flashlight if it met their eyes. They knew the old man for what he was, and probably whispered among themselves of buried treasure or hidden money. They would suspect a robber of like mind if they saw the flashlight going.

They might have noticed it then! He had to get the cigarette-case and go away quickly....

Forcing his brain to function while he was stiff with a terror that he could not down, he masked the bulb with his fingers and let a little ray trickle over the table. The old, clawlike hand. It seemed to be nearer the telephone than it had been. The cloth table-top. No monogrammed ease. It had been there. He had seen it not two minutes since. But it had vanished utterly.

The living man could have screamed with rage. He seemed to feel the thing in the chair shaking with silent laughter. The chair was shaking! God! It was shaking!

The murderer fled to the doorway upon caving knees, his whole soul writhing in panic. And then he heard the reassuring purring of his motorcar, waiting to carry him away. Outside was sanity. Only within was nightmarish horror. He could not go away and leave that ease to hang him....

He was grinding his teeth as he came back. He was doggedly desperate in his resolution. He got down on his hands and loiees and let a little trickle of light slip between his Angers. Instinctively he kept out of reach of the dead Angers. Not yet had he come to think of danger there. The thing in the chair enraged him while it terrified him, because it mocked him. But he would get this one thing and go....



T he floor was bare. The case had not fallen from the table to the floor.

He let his light go out again, while his scalp crawled. But he could not go without the ease. Leaving it, he left safety — perhaps life — ^behind. Thei’e was no single thing to connect him with this murder save that. His alibi was prepared, was perfect. But he had been seen to use that ease an hour ago. Found here, it would damn him. If it were carried away, he would be unsuspected.

He had planned it perfectly. That was the only flaw in the whole plan, and he had only to pick up the monogrammed case of silver to be both safe and rich. Why, he’d even planned out the funeral! He would be dutifully grieved. Some of the neighbors would be there — some because it was the proper thing, but more from curiosity. The only person who would really regret the old man’s death would be the telephone-girl. The old man paid her a small extra sum to give his line special attention. It was, he said, his burglar-protection. And every month, grudgingly, he paid her a small sum, with a deduction for each time he could claim to have been kept waiting for a number.

There was a scratching sound from the chair. The murderer sprang to his feet, his terror making his throat dry. The scratching came again, like a flngernail on rough-polished sheet metal. The telephone! The thing in the chair was reaching for the telephone!

The murderer acted without thought, in pure sweating fear. He sprang like a wildcat. The table toppled heavily to the floor and the telephone went spinning against the wall. He flung the extended wrist aside....

It resisted his hand. And he jerked away and stood moaning softlj^ m an ecstasy of fear and desperation.

Once more the feeling as if the thing in the chair were laughing, shaking in silent, ghastly laughter. The one thing that held the murderer

in the room was the cigarette-case that could hang him. And the thing was tormenting him and shaking in horlible mirth....

Long past the power to reason, the miirderer brought forth all his willpower. It was really a conflict between two fears, a panic-stricken horror of the dead thing before him, and terror of a noose that awaited him. He flashed his light despairingly — and saw the cigarette-case.

, It was projecting invitingly from the pocket of the thing in the chair. It had been on the table. It had been filched from beneath his descending hand. It was in the dead man’s pocket, as if tucked thei’e by stiff and clumsy fingers — or as if left projecting to lure him to a snatch. And the extended hand, with its clawing fingers outstretched, quivered^a little as if with eagerness for him to make an attempt to get it.

He whimpered. It was trying to get him to reach for the ease, invitingly in sight. But if he reached, he wmuld be within the length of its anns. And they Would move stiffly but very swiftly to seize him....

He whimpered. He dared not go without that ease. He dared not reach in his hand to seize it. He sobbed a little with pure terror. Then, glassyeyed with horror, he swung his foot in a sudden, nervous kick. If he could kick the ease from its insecure position, he could retrieve it from the floor....

He was quivering. The kick failed. The thing remained motionless, but it seemed to him that it was tensing itself for a sudden effort.... The miarderer wrung his hands. He kicked again, and sheer icy fear flowed -through his veins as he felt the soft resistance of the cloth against his foot. But he missed.

He heard a curious little chuckling sound that could not possibly have come from anything but a human throat. It was a himan voice. It was syllables, divided to form words, but



words in a strangled, distant, ghastly

tone....

Drenched in the sweat of undiluted horror, the murdei'er swung his foot a third time, desperately, with his eyes glassy and the breath whistling in his throat.

Then he screamed....

The flashlight dropped to the floor. There was utter darkness. Tliere was no noise for seconds save those chuckling sounds. They were louder, now. Tlie murderer stood rigid, balanced upon one foot, his eyes terrible. He screamed again. Something had hold of his foot. Something grasped at his trouser-leg and tugged at it gently. Not strongly. Gently. But it was tugging....

The murderer screamed and screamed, with his eyes the eyes of a man in the depths of hell. Not because his foot was caught, but because something was pulling him, weakly but inexorably, in furtive little tUgs, toward the man in the ehaii* — ^T:\iio was dead.

Then sharp nails sank in his flesh and the murderer broke away. He fell, and in falling his slipping foot crashed against the leg of the chair, and that tunied over upon him....

telephone operator had been listening since the receiver was flmig off its hook by the fall of the telephone. She had spoken.several times, asking what was wanted, and the sound had issued from the receiver on the floor like — ^well — like the chuckle of a man amused in a horrible fashion. When she heard screaming, she sent men to investigate. And they found a dead man tumbled out of the chair in which he had died, and another man crawling about the room. The living man was crawling about on his hands and knees, his eyes wide and staring and terrified, while a huge pet cat made plaj’iul pounces at his trouser-leg, tugging at it, woriwing it, pulling backwai'd upon it. And whenever the cat pulled at the bit of cloth, the living man screamed in a sickly, terrified fashion.

They never did get at the rights of the matter, but the coroner was somewhat annoyed by the cat, during the inqiiest. He was sitting in the chair the dead man had sat in, be.side the table on which the telephone stood. And the cat buffeted his coat-tails? hanging doum, with playful pats of its paws. The sound was veiy much like that of a man drumming softly and meditatively upon a table.

But it was not that which annoyed the coroner. He liked cats. What did annoy him w'as the fact that he had put his lighted cigarette on the edge of the table for an instant, and the eat sank its claws in the table-cover. With the jerk, the cigarette fell from the table into the coroner’s pocket, and burned a hole through to the skin.

“If that cigarette had been in its ease, now,” said the coi’oner, smiling at his own feeble joke, “it wouldn’t have done any harm.”

The Stor^ Thus Far

T he Rocket, a space>ship invented by Philip Carewe, takes off for the Moon, with the inventor, Donald Armstrong, John Sanderson, and a girl. Beryl Claverly, inside. The voyagers land their Rocket on the Moon, bnt are captui^ by the.lunarites and held captives in the caves of the Moon. The lunarites ax-e a hybrid race, and gi-ow like mushrooms, dying in about seven years. They conceive the fantastic scheme of using Beryl to produce a new hybrid race, so that their offspring will no longer need to be planted in the mushroom beds to grow like fungi until they attain the power of independent movement.

CHAPTER 10

T he door-flap was whipped aside, and the excited features of Donald appeared before them. He halted, panting, then clutched Philip and dragged him to one side.


“Sanderson ” he choked, trying

to keep his voice from carrying to Beryl, who stood alone, puzzled and wondering at Donald’s actions. Should she insist on listening, or should she leave them to their undoubtedly sincere plans for her own safety?

“I caught up with the traitor and insisted — on accompanying,” Donald husked. “He has been trying for some time to turn me against you, and I let him think — that perhaps I might after all swing into line with him, whatever his plans might be, for I wanted to find out just what deviltry he was up to.

“Anyway, he couldn’t get rid of

Tills story bc&aii in WEIRD TALES for December



\

me. He beat it straight for Sari — made him a proposition — for his and mj’ benefit. I stayed just long enough to get the main details, then beat it back to warn you and Beryl. Seems these ‘squashes’ have been waiting merely to acclimate Beiyl to this damnable chai'ged atmosphere down here. Then those bolted dooi’s would be opened — to her only! A transfusion of blood — the best specimens those growing beds offered ”

“Stop!” Philip cried, his voice hoarse with the stark horror of it.

He saw it all now. Those great, bolted doors were but the portals of larger, vaster caverns like those that he and Donald had glimpsed inside during their brief stay in the small and unimpoi’tant one where they had been placed to hasten tiieir recovery, and which place they had, curiously enough, not found since.

What to do? They must not stand idly discussing this thing. Action — they must do something — ^and at once. But what? He cudgeled his brain, groping frantically for some plan, some practical chance of escape for Beryl from the power of tliese fiends aided by the traitorous Sanderson.

“Oh!” the girl burst out suddenly, stamping a small foot wrathfully. Donald’s voice, growing louder in his excitement, had carried to her in spite of his caution. “The beast! Because I — rebuffed him, he takes this means of revenge, and of safety for himself. ’ ’

So that was what was primai'ily behind Sanderson’s sudden move, thought Philip, a curtain of crimson drop])ing befoi’e his eyes. A maddened brain began to function rapidly. How fortunate it was, after all, that Sanderson had not been left his gun by the lunarites! Now he eoitld not use it against his own companions. But hold. Would not his new allies return it to him — both it and Donald’s automatic — to help subdue them? Unless a I’use was feared by the lunarites, The chances were, however, that

they would turn over to Sanderson at least one of those Aveapons,

“Hurry,” Philip rapped out suddenly. “Our only chance is to break through the scattered populace to the one outlet that we know of. We might be able to find our way to the outside, before Sari ’s crowd arrives. Grab only what you can’t do without and come on.”

A few seconds later they dashed out into the midst of the gaping lunarites that happened to be about at the time. Striking off at a tangent from the route by which Sari and Sanderson would approach from the former’s headquarters, Philip led the way down the checkerboard streets as rapidly as Beryl could follow. To their surprize and relief, for once they were not followed by their usual ‘ ‘ escorts, ’ ’ which for some unknown but happy reason were not to be seen.

Fast as they ran, however, the thm cries of the lunarites carried faster. Each minute saAV greater masses of the gray people obstructing their way, not intentionally, but through curiosity. For, to protect Berjd from their identification and desire under stress of the excitement of the flight and probable pursuit, he had made her tuck her unbobbed hair under his cap, which she wore Avith his coat. She already had on Idiaki breeches and puttees, which she had Avora from the Rocket.

At last they found themselves all but halted, hemmed in by the milling, curious throngs. And now, from behind, came a sound that made Philip’s heart sink — a definite sound of pursuit. Only the dense croAvds in the narrow streets behind them would huider the pureuers, delaying their arrival a few minutes longer. He looked at Beryl.

“I haA'e it safe,” she said, in anSAver to his unvoiced question, pressing a hard bulge in her coat pocket.

No use to push longer against the packed gray bodies tliat ringed them.



No use to bully or threaten them either, for the lunarites in fx’ont could not have moved out of the way had they willed. They surged closer and tighter about the trio each moment — while all the time the cries of pursuit drew nearer.

A last hope came to Philip — an idea that, no matter how slim its chance for success, must suffice for lack of any other apparent possibility of escape.

“Stick close together, gang,” he said, slipping an am protectively about Beryl.

“Righto,” agreed Donald, facing the opposite direction, with his back against Philip’s, so that he could guard against any surprize attack from the rear.

T he pursuing party was less than fifty yards away now. Philip caught a glimpse of Sanderson bringing up the rear, as if either ashamed or afraid of his treacherous part. Sari led the pursuers. At last the crowd opened directly in front of them, the othei-s about them pressing back in awe at the approach of their leader, - thus leaving a fairly wide space. This was as Philip had hoped.

He waited m silence until the arrogant Sari had approached to within a dozen feet. Then he suddenly pulled forth the automatic and pointed it directly at the tall lunarite.

At this imexpected move. Sari halted abruptly. Until now it had been plain that he had feared not the slightest danger to himself with the thousands of his own subjects packed about them.

For an instant it looked as if he might turn and flee ignobly. Already he knew well the destructive force of these instruments, from that day by the Rocket. But he stood his ground and, turning his head, called to Sandei'son to come forward.

The latter, still well behind Sari, hesitated. Then a defiant look came over his face. He strode to the leader’s side and faced the companions he had so basely betrayed. It was evident that he did not in the least relish the weapon now covering both Mm and Sari.

“Command them to give up that weapon and accept our protection,” said Sari, addressing Sanderson,

“Drop it, PMl,” advised the traitor. “They mean no ham to you.”

“Like hell they don’t, you damned traitor,” yelled Donald, forgetful of his ministerial training, and pressing forward with inflamed contenance.

“Back, Don!” barked Phil. “I’m going to i)ot the first one of them tJiat makes a false move. Sari, either you clear a passage for us to the outside, or you die now. Think fast. And you, John Sanderson, will travel to hell along w'ith Mm at the first new mistake you make — if they will receive either of you at that place!”

“I’ve got a gun of my own in my pocket — you can’t bluff me,” spat Sanderson.

“And you’ll never get a chance to di'aw it, you yellow hound,” Philip came back at him. “Start him to clearing a path for us through this crowd, or you’ll be the first to go.”

Sanderson’s countenance blanched. He turned and spoke earnestly to Sari in an undertone for a full minute. Then;

“All right. He says he’ll do it. Hi, you rabble — get back out of the way there.”

“Wait,” barked PMl. “Toss that gun, butt first, to Donald. Careful now, how you get hold of it... there. Now, you. Sari, walk up here in front of me — ^no monkeyshines — I can kill you any moment, and will if you don’t do exactly what I tell you to do..,. That’s it. And you, Sanderson, do the same. Keep that gun jammed into his back, Don, and I’ll do the same for our other finend here. Gang way, squashes! Tell ’em to open up better. Sari, or it’s your finish. Also tell that gang that came with you that if one of them tries to molest us.



they will be one leader short before they get a chance to do you any good. ’ ’

Plainly the leader valued his brief, life quite as much as earth-beings do their far longer ones, for he gave prompt and excitedly earnest instruc-' tions as Philip had directed. The crowd began to fall back sullenly but steadily, opening a nari'ow way ahead for them.

“Keep an eye on the -rear, dear,” said Philip aside to Beryl.

But she had anticipated him, and already had the following companions of Sail covered with the automatic she carried.

“Here, that won’t do,” decided Philip. “We can’t have you backing up all the way while Don and I walk comfortabl.y. Jab that ‘iron’ against Sari’s spinal column while I bring up the rear.”

The shift made, the- curious group moved ahead slowly between the vast throngs of curious lunarites. It wns apparent to Philip after a few minutes of tedious and almost imperceptible progress, that unless something else was done, they would never reach their goal. Calling a halt, he addressed the whispering group of dignitaries that followed him.

“Your leader’s life depends upon our arriving safely on the outside surface of your world. Everj' surge of this multitude, every minute’s delay, increases his peril. You, and you,” he indicated, “go on ahead and disperse this crowd sufficiently in advance of us so that we can move on with greater freedom. And be sure to lead the w'ay to the nearest exit, for Sari ’s life will be forfeited at the first suspicion of treachery! ’ ’

Reluctantly the pair designated pi’Oceeded to follow oirt his command, pushing their way with difficulty through the wall of gray flesh. Presently they arrived at a point some hundred yards away, where one of them mounted on the shoulders of two lunarites and began to harangue the crowd in a rapid, indistinguishable

jargon. Philip observed this proceeding anxiously, half expecting the throng to turn upon them immediately afterward m response to some exhorting from the digmitarj'’, that these earth-beings be destroyed even at the sacrifice of their leader.

But this did not happen. Soon the multitude around the speaker began to thin out. True, those on the outskirts remained, but there was a sufficient loosening up to enable them to get through better than before.

The other dignitary went on still farther ahead and repeated the process. In this manner they gradually drew nearer to the closest exit to the outside of the satellite within whose crust thcj'- had been prisoners so long.

What the immediatc future held for them, Philip did not attempt to surmise then. He Imew that they could but make the best of their present meager advantage, and hope. Had any of them been able to look into the future, however, it is doubtful whether they would have had the courage to go on!

CHAPTER 11

TC'OR many minutes Philip and the others had been climbing a steep bank of steps cut in the louver side of a seemingly endless, sloping passage. The multitude was left behind. Only Sari and a half-dozen of his court remained with them, all climbing ahead now, with Philip watching their every move and Donald officiating with the automatic that Beiyl had carried, by pressing it against his royal nibs’ back. About them the mysterious greenish glow still lighted their way.

“You’d think these people would have devised some electrical contrivances to convey them back and forth between the surface and their subterranean abode,” obseiwed Donald, technical interest overshadowing for the moment his anxiety over their predicament.

“I have an idea that their reserve of electrical energy is too limited,”



said Philip. “The moon is in its last throes as a world, in physical energy and resources as well as in animal and vegetable life, which calls for strictest conseiwation wherever and however they can practise ”

A glad cry from Beryl interrupted him.

“Phil — the end of the stairs!” she called, though she did not recognize them, for she had been in a dead swoon when the lunarites carried her do\vn these stairs.

Ahead, a large open space now broke the monotony of the long flight.

“We’d better watch sharply for a surprize attack, Phil,” warned Donald. “No telling how many are lying in wait for us up there. ’ ’

The top of the stairway reached at last, they saw with a thrill a soft glow that seemed almost surely a reflection of sunlight from somewhere. A large chamber with a roof some twenty feet high met their gaze. A half-dozen lunarites stood about, guarding cumbersome geared devices that filled this room row upon row, a ladder leading upward from each.

“The ‘caps’!” cried Philip, guessing at once the relation of these machines to those mushroom affairs he had seen pu.shing up through the snow the day they landed. His heart began to thump wildly at the appi-oaching climax to their hoped-for e.seape.

At this point one of the dignitaries l)aused uncertainly.

“We have fulfilled our bargain, fedosa (master). You have but to mount to the rim of any of these outlets.”'

“Your leader goes with us,” returned Philip. “When Ave are all.safely outside, he 'will be permitted to return. ’ ’

“He can not do that, fedosa, for he would peri.sh in the heat. ’ ’

“He means ‘cold’,” observed Donald. “Don’t you?” — turning to the lunarite spokesman. “Is there much.snow left out there?”

“No, no sms (snow), but hinor (fire). “Sms all gone. Burned up by sun. ’ ’

“Well, I’ll be jiggered,” exploded Donald. “Here we are, all ready to leaA^e and it’s too hot. What are Ave going to do now? ’ ’

* ‘ (3limb up and stick your head outside,” suggested Sanderson, evincing interest in their escape now that he saw freedom Avithin their grasp Avith an opportunity to share it himself. “If you can stand it, the rest of us AAdll take a chance.” He gi'inned in a sickly attempt at humor.

“You get great ideas — you and your ‘us’ talk now. How about trying it yourself? But you haven’t the guts, I guess. Hey, there, Phil, let me do it. ’ ’

But Philip already was swiftly mounting the rungs in the nearest of the ladders. No time to Avaste noAv on futile arguments!

The caps all AA'ere raised, as he could see now, no doubt to ventilate the vast lower regions. Reaching the rim of the one he had.selected, he stretched out an ann into the blazing sun.

It Avas hot, but not unbeai’ably so — not for a brief while at any rate. The lunarites, with their spongy vegetative tissues, would pi'obably fare little better than.snails in a desert out there, Avhereas a human being conceivably might resist the temperature successfully for some time.

“Watch that carrion closely,” he called doAvn in final warning. “I’m going to see whether the Rocket is Avhere Ave left it. ’ ’

This Avas vital, for, once they were all outside, the lunarites could easily shut them out by lowering the caps. With no shade and no refuge, they might easily perish in the rays of the sim that blazed unmercifully doAvn through the thin layer of atmosphere.

Fortune was still Avith them, however. Hardly had he scrambled out on to the burning, lava rock than he.saw the Rocket in its original position.



not more than a hundred yards away. A quick dash and he had reached it.

He drew a gi-eat breath of relief as he saw the rope still dangling fi’om the rung underneath, where he and Donald had tied it when they had prepared to slide do^m to the lunar terrain for the fill's! time, more than forty earthly days past. This would speed his passage to the manhole, to whieli otherwise he must have clambered laboriously by means of the smooth and sloping tubes.

The manhole in the floor was still shut; as Beryl and Sanderson probably had left it for safety, he decided. With bated breath he felt for the hidden latch, pressed it, and saw the cover swing outwai'd.

A rapid search inside showed eveiything to be in order, though it was terrifically hot. He switched on the cooling-apparatus. It was for just such an emergency as this that it had been installed and was now I'eady to prove its great value to them. Another half minute and he had dropped back on to the rock below and was racing back to the cap from which he had come.

To his infinite relief, he found all as when he had left, the lunarites still submitting calmly to the urge of the leveled automatics, while Sanderson now was only too well satisfied to throw in his lot with the plan for escape that ah'eady had eveiy earmark of success.

“All set?” Philip sang out as he climbed down beside them. “Beryl, you go up fir,st; Don, you next. Then Sanderson. HurrJ^”

'^HEY negotiated the ladder rungs without mishap, and Philip made ready to follow.

As he did so, there was an unmistakable tensing of the figures about him. Some hidden sense told him that they were getting ready to rush him. He raised the automatic as he placed his foot on the bottom rung.

“First?” he inquired in the lunar

tongue. His foot found the second rung.

“Oh, you would, would you!” The leaping lunarite dropped in his tracks as Philip fired.

Then suddenly they were all screeching and gibbering in an unearthly, swelling voliune as they rushed him. No time or use in making good his threat to shoot Sari first. His second, third, fourth and fifth deliberate shots dropped as many lunarites at the foot of the ladder while he steadily mounted to half-w’ay. Then he turned and made a dash for the top.

At the I’im he paused long enough to di’op his two neai'est pursuers, one of them the snarling Sari. He had made good his thi’eat after all.

In that moment he saw for the first time, and to his horror, that other ladders were filled with screeching gray men who, in their disappointment and rage, had apparently forgotten their avowed fear of the seorehmg heat outside. Suppose Beryl was still within their reach out there I He fled in frank panic at the thought.

The fierce heat beat upon him like a blast from a crucible as he emerged and ran toward the Pocket. With a thrill of relief, he saw Beryl just disappearing inside the Pocket, followed by Sanderson. Donald — good old Don! — had paused to help him, his weapon even now spitting at the nearest lunarites. With a final leap, Philip reached his side and turned his outi weapon on their attackers.

“Inside, Don,” he gasped. “Quick — so I can follow you! ’ ’

“Counfounded if I do ”

“And damned if you don’t. Danm it: w'e hotli can’t be last. That’s it — • up you go. Awk! Take that, you jelly-fish!” A rash lunarite who had attempted to drag him from the rope crashed to the ground below.

Then the deed wms done — a satisfying click sounded as the manhole closed; the most beautiful of all



sounds Philip could remember having heard, ever.

“Tight fit, that,” observed Donald, trembling.

“ Phil! Are you all right? ’ ’ — from Beryl.

“Sure. Gangway! Let me see what those fiends are doing out there.”

A dread sight met his anxious peering through the glass. The lunarites’ attack had suddenly collapsed. The terrific heat, against which those flabby bodies held so little resistance, was striking them do\vn in heaps. A few of the more fortunate ones had reached the caps, were feebly crawling inside. Others writhed helplessly on the flint-like, burning rock, while dozens lay quiet about the Rocket. Truly they must have been desperate beyond all ordinary reason, but whether that desperation was bom principally of their reluctance to let Beryl escape or was caused by the killing of their leader, could not be Imown.

“Ugh, what a mess!” Sanderson muttered thickly.

“And you turned do-wn your own race for that mess,” cried Donald.

“What I did was meant for our good in the end.”

‘ ‘ Like Hades it was! You were protecting your own hide, purely and simply.”

“Never mind that now,” Philip interjected. “Let’s try to get this big cigar in motion once more. ’ ’

“You said it. Back home to Mother Earth for us, ’ ’ said Sanderson eagerly.

“Not yet. We’ve more important things to do first. ’ ’

“You’re not going to beat it away from this damned lava ball?” — incredulously. “Then what ”

“We came a quarter of a million miles to explore the surface of the moon, and we’re going to do it if our power holds out,” said Philip. “That is,” he hesitated, “provided Beryl and Don are willing.”

“We’re with you, Phil,” said Donald, after a quick glance at Beryl.

“Of course we are,” she seconded promptly, and firmly.

“Well, of all the- — ” Sanderson began. “Where does Your Majesty plan heading first? ’ ’

“If we can get started, to the invisible hemisphei’e. ’ ’

‘ ‘ The ‘ invisible hemisphere ’? ” gasped Beryl. “Why — where and what is that? ’ ’

“That is the side of the moon we never see from the earth. You see, the moon is shaped something like a pear, and this side is the ‘heavier’ side, or bottom, which the pull of the earth always keeps turned toward it, the moon rotating on its axis as a result in exactly the same time it takes for it to pass round the eartli in its twenty-nine day orbit. No one on earth ever has glimpsed that mysterious hemisphere on the opposite side — ‘behind the moon’.”

T he problem of getting the Rocket under way once more was a stumper, howevei’. Obviously, it was impossible to raise this tremendously heavy machine to its normal, upright starting-position, even on the moon, where its weight was reduced by fivesixths of its earthly weight. For the bare lunar surface offered no convenient tree or material for rigging up a hoist to raise the Rocket’s head by mechanical means.

“We’ve but one chance, and we’ll have to take it,” pronounced Philip, finally. “We’ll charge the tubes and chance sliding off this level plain into space without crashing our walls in. ’ ’ The others paled. The prospect of the violent death that would probably be theire if the plan failed was a facer. Beryl was the fii-st to break the long silence.

“It’s that or — or return to the lunai’ites, isn’t it?”

“Or remain right here until our power, heat and fo^ all are depleted. We could but be postponing our fate — and tossing away the only chance we have, slender as it is.”



“Then, let’s take the chance right away, ’ ’ she decided.

Sanderson, his face the color of paste, moved his lips as if to protest, but no sound issued fi*om them. Donald, watching covertly, threw him a look of scorn and turned away. It was in that instant that Sanderson leaped suddenly, wildly, for Philip, who was already at the controls.

“Phil!” cried Berjd in warning.

The inventor looked up just in time. He caught the upraised hand with the clasp-knife before it could sweep downward on its destructive arc. A quick twist, and the weapon clattered on to the floor while Sanderson rubbed the strained miiseles of his right hand and wrist ruefully. Donald retrieved the knife promptly, then proceeded to back Sanderson away from the region of the controls, with the persuasion of his automatic.

‘ ‘ Getting to be a regular Peek ’s bad boy, aren’t you? Gosh, but you’ve become a nuisance. ’ ’

Philip shook his head wearily. That they must mistrust and use violent force against one of their ovn party boded ill indeed.

“All set?” he called after a bit, when Sanderson had sullenly agreed to a truce, and all except Philip were stationed at the safety grips in the wall.

“All set,” Donald answered, after a quick glance at the others.

There was a terrific grinding, and single bounding jar — then a sense of soaring.

Gripping the levers with all his strength, Philip retained his control of that giant mechanical monster in its curving sweep up from the floor of the lunar plane. With a sigh of relief he saAv the others getting to their feet, apparently unhurt. He checked the Rocket’s speed to a minimum, hovering now but a few miles above the moon’s brilliant surface.

“Once again, folks,” he asked; “shall we return right now to the earth, since we are safely launched,

or do 3 'ou vote to see first all we came here to see? I ’ll be neutral. Come — which shall it be? ”

“We already decided that,” said Donald. “We’re with you to the finish.”

“Of course,” confirmed Beryl. Sanderson turned away sulkily. They all knew his preference.

“Then it’s ho for the back of the Man-in-the-Moon ’s neck,” he cried. “We’re on our way.”

CHAPTER 12

T he marvels of the lunar terrain were sliding slowly past again beneath them as the Rocket drifted farther and farther toward the limits of the familiar hemisphere that we on earth know so well. They were following the lunar day round this globe, though easily exceeding its lazy, 700hour-per-revolution passage of some ten miles an hour! Thus, even at their own present leisur-ely speed, they would shortly catch up with the day’s da-wn and pass into the night ahead of it unless they landed before that.

It was Philip ’s plan to remain well within that day’s boundaries in its march out of the knovm hemisphere into that perpetually hidden and mysterious one beyond its confines, exploring from the heights as they went, and landing at least once more if the region promised fresh lore and propitious landing possibilities. Eagerly he let his imagination travel on ahead. Would the new hemisphere contain oceans and fertile regions like those of the earth? Or perhaps some weird and awful secret, too dreadful for even his imagination to suggest? Would this as-yet-unseen region hold beings like the little gray men they had just left behind; or would they find a different race entirely, totally cut off from the others by barriers of climate, as effectively as if by thousands of miles of space?

At this point in hLs mental ramblings his attention was flagged by



the sharp outlines of a large crater rising above the western horizon. Almost they were at the limits of tiie earth-known lunar world,

‘ ‘ There, ’ ’ he said, pointing, ‘ ‘ is the last conspicuous outpost of the hemisphere our astronomers know. Soon vve shall get our first glimpse of the ‘forbidden region’.”

A tense silence descended upon the little group of adventurei's as each member pondered what that unknown terrain might hold for their gaze. Somewhat the same qualms must hav-e assailed the crew of the Santa Marki when they gazed fearfully out over the unfolding horizon over four centuries earlier. Would the plain suddenly di'op off in a sheer i)recipice across the surface of the satellite? Or would they perhaps find a vast sea?

But, like Columbirs and his fellow mariners, they might have saved themselves these anxieties — at least for the time lx;ing. As the Rocket soared over and beyond that last knovm and centuries-extinct crater, their eager -eyes met only the.same sort of scenes as that with which they had already grown familiar. More craters, more stretches of smooth lava floor broken between cratei’s only by raised.seams where the cooling molten rock had lapped; and here and there a crater radiating the light streaks or Assures on the plain round it like those streaks about Copernicus.

Thus, at fir.st, their fears were allayed — even tunied to disappointment, such is the peiwersencss of the human mind.

Then, slowly, unmistakably, a definite change began to creep over the terrain. For one thing, the horizon steadily began to lengthen ahead and in back of them strangely, the while shortening on each side! It was as if they were riding a long, though hugely wide and vast, sagging hogback. True, the nearer Iiorizons still were too far away to show any decided curve to the surface swaying some four or five miles below. Yet the impression persisted — as of a tilting do-ftTi and away of the terrain on two sides of them.

“The pear!” Donald ejaculated irrelevantly.

' ‘ Pear — what do you mean? ’ ’ asked Sanderson irritably, anxiety lining his countenance.

But Bei'yl caught the significance of Donald’s remark at once.

“Why — he mast mean the shape of the moon. You know you said, Phil, that the side always pointed toward the earth is larger, heavier than the other side. I recall now that it was one of the first things we learaed about the moon in school — that it Avas not a nearly perfect globe like our earth, but pear-shaped.

“Right,” said Philip. “And we’re plainly traveling along its tapering length — along a continuation of the equator and directly tOAvard its ‘ ])ealt ’ or ‘stem’ end!”

“Is that safe?” cried Sanderson. “Sui’ely you won’t persist in going on in the face of a phenomenon like this. Ilow do we know Avhat effect all this Avill produce? ’ ’

“Aw, Avhat’s one phenom more or less in our young lives,” asked Donald, “after coming more than tAvo hundred thousand miles through.space? We took our big chance AA'hcn Ave hopped off earth. There’s no use bemg quitters noAV.”

“Of course,” said Beryl. “We couldnH turn back noAV. It Avould be a shame to miss this chance to sec just what this side is like. ’ ’

Her first fears had been replaced by the eagerness of a child on a picnic. This eagerness Philip and Donald shared with her. The scoAvling Sanderson Avas outvoted. The Rocket corttinued on its course.

Meantime another marked change AA'as coming over the surface below. The craters Avere growing feAver, farther apart, and lower. At the same time the terrain between the craters Avas taking on a mottled appearance. Here and there dark, scattered patches apBEHIND THE MOON


peai'ed. And these steadily grew larger in size, less scattered, until they were more in evidence than the bare lava plains.

“Look! over there is a gi^eat big patch extending bej'ond the horizon on three sides, ’ ’ said Donald, pointing ahead and slightly off to the right of their couree.

As thej" proceeded, this vast and densest-of-all patch took on an aspect not unlike a lai'ge sea. Yet it was clear, even at this height, that it was not an expanse of water they were looking i4>on.

“It looks moi'e like a dwarf foiest, or perha])s a dense thicket of a sort,” mused Philip, as they all.surveyed the great shadowy expanse that now all W spread over the entire visible surface of the moon.

Only behind them, on one of the two ixioi'e-distinct seetiwis of the horizon, was a slice of the lighter, open plain still visible.

And as they looked back lingeringly at that strip of open plain, a.spot of black appeared at one corner. This spot slowly pushed out on to the neck of light terrain, spread and covered that part of the wedge between the surrounding sliadows. Then the scene was lost on the horizon.

“What did you make of thatf** muttered Donald.

“Might have been a yoiuig army of lunarites belatedly aroused by our passage overhead, ’ ’ hazarded Beryl.

“Perhaps,” said Philip thoughtfully.

He was thinking of something Azan had said once — some vague remark dropped about crawling shapes among the stunted growths of their near-by crater, from whence they drew their meager supply of fiber,

“Are you intending to land in that mass?” Sanderson asked, a hint of menace mingling with the anxiety in his voice, as the Rocket moved along over the unbroken dark-gray expanse.

“I am not.” Philip reassured him. “We will not land until we either

know more about that dark surface or find another jjateh. Besides, we haven’t yet discovered the stem, or pole, of this pear-shaped satellite.”

All the time the horizon had continued drawing closer on each side of their course. They could easily diseeni the curious shaping of this part of the satellite — like an immense, long, sagging cone, still hundreds of miles in circumference, however. Its ends stretched off distantly in strange contrast to the nearness of the horizon on the sides.

But the horizon ahead began to lose its strange suggestion of an upward curve, and began to shrink, too. Philip judged — and correctly, as they were to learn ere long — that the Rocket was at last nearing the “top” of the moon, the very center of that mysterious hidden hemisphere!

An hour later, now clo.se behind the edge of the receding night, the adventurers stared down upon the fix^st.spot of open territoiy they had seen since Donald had pointed out the great dai*k-hucd expanse which soon aftci’ward had spreatl Ix^yond the horizon in every dir<H;tion. A eurioxis bulge characterized the region of this sj)ot — curious not so much because of its knoll-like shape as because of the now greatly shortened horizon in every dii’cctiou about it. Evidently they had actually arrived at the ‘ ‘ stem ’ ’ of this enormous pear-shaixcd wox’ld.

Toward this bare surface Philip allowed the Rocket to fall with exceeding carefulness, while the othei’s watched with bated breath. At a word from Philip, Donald stationed himself be.side the main switch by which all five tixbos could be cut off instantly and simultaneously. This he was to throw the moment the Rocket touched the surface below.

The experience of one landing was behind them — not a comfortuxg volume of experience or skill for this intx'icate and all but impossible feat, to be sure, but it must suffice. With a con94


ocnti’atioii and tenseness that stretched his nerves taut, Philip juggled that dangerously vast resen'oir of explosive power, dropping the Rocket ever nearer to the center of that mile-wide plain.

Then, somehow, they were almost unaccountably and abruptly at rest — upright this time. The second landing was achieved, successfully, and with scarcely a jolt to mark the event.

CHAPTER 13

'"pHE rays of the morning sun shone

sparkling clear on what appeared to be a miniature desert about the Rocket. In its loose surface a great bowl-shaped depression had been blown by the checked blast of the tubes. The windows of the Rocket looked out on a level Avith the desert.

Without fear this time of any outrushing of the precious air pressure inside the chamber, the adventurers lowered the ladder through --the ma,nholes and descended. Their feet sank into a carpet of coarse white sand, through Avhich they scrambled to the rim above. There they paused to survey their surroundings.

Newly risen here. Old Sol had just begun to temper the chill of the air. It might have been a rare spring moi’ning at home, so perfect W’as the temperature. They Avere not Avearing the special Avarming coats and masks that they had Avom on their first landing, having tested the air in advance through an opened AvindoAV.

The Rocket, they saAv, had come to rest not more than tAVo hundred yards from the edge of the plain, Avhieh was isolated from any other open spaces in this region by the solid gray growth they had observed from aloft. This looked to be about fifteen feet high at the most, tapering doAvn someAvhat Avhere it met the sand. It appeared, at the distance, to be some twisted sort of coarse vine ^’owth.

“Not a madly stimulating vieAV,” remarked Beiyl. “A dinl?y desert.

hemmed in by a mysterious jungle. Hello! — what are you up to, Don?”

The latter was stooping over something that had caught his eye in the sand. A low whistle escaped him as he straightened up with Avhatever it Avas in his hand.

“Something tells me that this spot may prove more ‘stimulating’ than anticipated,” he cried. “Just take a look at tliis — Avill you? ’ ’

The three of them gathei'ed round him quickly.

“If I’m any judge of precious stones — and I onee made quite a study of them — Ave are looking upon a genuine diamond in the rough — one that Avould cut and polish to at least tQ^ carats,” he explained. “And Avhcre that came from there are doubtless plenty more. Probably lots bigger ones! ’ ’

“Don!” gasped Beryl. “You mean ”

‘ ‘ That Ave all are as rich as oil barons — if we ever get back to the earth! ”

“On one diamond?” smiled Philip.

Nevertheless he was as thrilled as the rest. He knew Donald to be something of an expert on precious stones, for the preacher-mechanician had once cariied religion to the natives of Brazil’s Avildest regions. It Avas there he had become familiar Avith the diamonds for which that country is famous.

Sanderson already was sprawled upon hands and knees, feverishlj^ sifting the sand through his fingers. His breath whistled audibly betAveen his parted lips. The others joined him in varying degrees of similar eageniess.

For some minutes there Avas no sound save the breathing of four pairs of lungs and the sifting and shuffling of sand. Then:

“Say, are you trying to play a trick on us with a phony stone out of your pocket?” Sanderson rasped abruptly, halting his efforts to fix Donald Avith a suspicious glare.



‘ ‘ There are no stones like that in this sand, and you know it. ’ ’

Donald rolled over and sat up to return the scowling botanist’s stare.

“I took no stone from my pocket. The one I showed you came from this sand. Now, is it my fault because you can’t find another?”

“Just because one diamond was found, it doesn’t follow that there are dozens more scattered all aromid it,” said Beryl. “But maybe we’ll run across one or two more yet, if we keep on looking. ’ ’

However, a half-hour later their search still was unrewarded.

“It’s no use,” Donald said, finally. ‘ ‘ I guess I must have found the only one around here. Besides, it isn ’t natural for diamonds to be found in such soil. The one I found was probably carried here from somewhere else.”

“By what, for instance?” Sanderson wanted to know.

A squeal of delight prevented a reply,

‘ ‘ I ’ve found one — I ’ve found one! ’ ’ Beryl cried, running toward them with one hand held out triumphantly.

A vStone similar to the one Donald had displayed lay in her palm — proved, in fact, upon examination, to be another diamond in the inugh, though only half the size of the first.

“Well,” said Philip, “there’s no joke about this. There are diamonds to be found around here — probably enough to make us all rich, ’ ’

“And I’m going to find mine right now,” announced Sanderson, already back at his grubbing.

Philip approached Donald with studied casualness. He had obseiu’^ed him wandering about and studying tlieir near-by surroundings with an odd look.

“What is it, old man?” he asked guardedly.

“Phil” — ^the other’s voice was low but excitement made it vibrate strangely — “can you figure out what might have made those tracks — running off there toward that dwarf jungle? Take a look on my right — and farther over there in either direction.”

Following his significant glance, Philip saw then what had escaped his notice in the excitement of their first view of their new surroundings, and in the interest that had followed Donald’s finding of the diamond,

A shallow, toboggan-like slide showed in the sand close by, like a very 5vide toboggan track. Then he noticed that other slides showed here and there beyond, crisscrossing the sand between them and that crouching jungle of vines. In the nearer track curious tracings appeared — delicate but large in pattern, like the imprint of a giant fern frond, repeated over and over.

Philip and Donald eyed each other mutely for a few moments. Then: ‘ ‘ Those moving blotches, ’ ’ murmured Donald. ‘ ‘ Remember — back there across the neck of that last plain?”

Philip nodded. Only too well did he remember and link that previous observation with these significant signs. At any time the desert plam on which they stood might be invaded by the same creatures they had seen issuing from that other dark region.

Yet they had come to observe, had braved — nay, defied — the laws of gravitation and space in order to have this verj”- opportunity. Theii, too, there was the Rocket, upright now and ready for almost instant flight in an emergency.

“Let’s see it through, Don. What do you say?”

“Right.”

They gripped hands for a moment surreptitiously, and turned back to the others. Berjd had joined Sanderson in his gem hunt, though less feverishly and with a wholesome zest that contrasted sharply against his muttering excitement.

The sun was not heating the air so rapidly as it had done in the other hemisphere, possibly because of the



sharp eui’vature of the satellite’s surface in this region. At any rate, the discomfort attending the continued shining of the sun on their first landing, and at the time of their hurried escape from the lunarites, was not at all in evidence now. Apparently, the temperature here was more iiniform, more constant. The surrounding vegetation probably had something, too, to do with this, by absorbing the excess heat as well as by retaining and throwing off an abating warmth during at least the early part of the nights.

' ‘ One of us must stand guard at the Rocket, ’ ’ said Philip.

“It can’t be John,” Donald returned bluntly. “As like as not, he’d jump inside and hop off in a tight pinch, leaving us to our fate. ’ ’

“You’ve a lot of confidence in our playmate, haven’t you? But I am obliged to say that I feel about the same. It will have to be you or I. Here — I’m matching you for choice.... Tails it is. All right, I’ll serve with the seouting-party. 0. K.?”

‘ ‘ Sure — didn ’t you win? ’ ’

No more stones had beeir found. Beryl had desisted from her searching and was watching Donald and Philip with pointed curiosity.

“Talk Beryl into staying here with you,” Philip whispered.

“I heard that remark,” said Beryl quickly. “And I’m not going to stay around here. I’m going with you” — firmly.

“Waste, of time, arguing with a woman,” remarked Donald. “Slight as well take her along. She’ll go anyway. ’ ’

“Solomon himself,” she purred, throwing Donald a bright smile. Then to Philip: “Do we start right away — and where can we go, after all? ’ ’

“Probably not more than a few hundred yards from this spot, ’ ’ he answered, eyeing that ominous fringe of matted vines. The rest of their little desert, with its mile or less of monotonous expanse, invited small interest. “But just the same, young woman” — he turned and fixed her with what he hoped was a cold gaze — ^‘you’re going to remain right here. ’ ’

She looked at him in frank surprize. Then he saw her eyes drop. Did he only imagine that she was laughing inwardly at his solemnity?

“All right, Phil, I’ll stay,” she said, meekly enough.

“Well, I’ll be ” began Donald.

The unthinkable dangers and weird horrors of that dwarf forest on the Moon will be detailed in next month' s chapters^ which bring this story to its conclusion.

I F YOU have read Mr. Seabrooke’s book on Haiti, The Magic Island, recently published, you must have been struck by the chapter entitled Bead Men Working in the Cane Fields. ^

As I was talking recently on this matter to Mr. de Travers the neurologist of Geneva, American bom and •with a large experience of the West Indies and of the negro mind, he said, “Why not?”

‘ ‘ Because, ’ ’ said I, “it ’s impossible. It ■would be easier to make one of Karel Capek’s robots than to take a dead man and put motive power into him and turn him into a slave. You know yourself the post-mortem W. T.— 3

changes that take place in the tissues of the body; even magic has limits, and ”

“A moment,” said he. “I mentioned Mr. Seabrooke’s book as confirmation of the story I had to tell you, and perhaps you will susj^nd judgment on the whole matter till I have finished. The story has to do with Martinique.

“Many years ago when quite a young man I lived at St. Pierre, Martinique.

“St. Pierre, now a mound of ashes, stood quite alone amongst the towns of the world; there was no other place like it: gay as Paris with a touch of New Orleans, yellow-tinted and palm97



topped against the burning;blue of the sky, its old French houses looked down, upon a bay of sappliire rarely stirred by the great winds and heavy seas that torment the northeastern, side of the island.

“I lived in the Rue Victor Hugo, a street that traversed the whole length of the toAvui, and I had only to step on to my balcony to look down on a crowd more astonishing than any dream of the Arabian Nights. Nearly all creoles of all tints from the octoroon to the chabine, the women gay as tropical birds; idlers, loungers, chatterers, street-singers, itinerant sellers of fruit, fish, pastry and heaven knows what; a moving market; a business scene, touched with the chann of the unreal.

‘ • I had three rooms all on the same floor and for personal servant, Baidaux, a young man, a creole, handsome, dark-eyed, serious and entirely devoted to me; he bought everything and I was never robbed and always sure of the finest mangoes, sapotas and avoeata in the market; his coffee was the best in Martinique, and he was always there when wanted. Except on Sundays. It seems he had a girl; she lived away over beyond Morne Rouge toward Grande Anse, a towir on the seaboard to the northwest and twenty miles from St. Pierre; her name was Finotte; and every Sunday he would vanish before dawn, taking his way on foot by the great national road La Trace, which, winding like a ribbon over hill and dale, by morne and mountain, cocoa plantation and cane field, took him to Finotte.

“But always on Monday morning at eight o’clock he would be in my room pulling up my blind and handing me my moi’ning coffee.

“ ‘Bon jour, M’sienr.’

“ ‘Bonjour, Baidaux — and how is Finotte?'

“I dreaded Finotte and the day

surely to come when, marriage would

join them and separate me from Baidaux.

“Life has many losses; not the least is the loss of a good servant, but Baidaux was not of the precipitate sort; he was laying by and building his nest as a bird might build, only with francs instead of sticks and feathers. I judged from what he said that it would be at least a year before the happy day — and unhappy for me — when Finotte would come to St. Pierre to take her place in that little shop in the Rue du Morne Mirail which he had marked down as their future home.

“Ah, well! One Monday morning he did not return; on the Wednesday he returned, but it was not Baidaux — it was a much older man.

“ ‘Bonjour, M’sieur/

“ ‘Bonjour, Baidaux — and how is Finotte? ’

“He put up his hands without a word; then I knew she was dead.

“He made the coffee as usual and put out my clothes.

“Yes, she was dead — it all came out gradually; he had arrived to find her dying — ^she was dead and buried. Of what had she died? He did not know. She was dead. He had seen her buried and had returned. That was all.

“He went on with his work. There was nothing else to do except die, and he was not of that sort, and time passed till a month had slipped away and the carnival came and passed with its rioting and drums sharply cut off by Lent. *Then — it might have been a month later — one evening I found him at the street door talking to an old woman, a caprcsse, very old and wrinkled, her head bound up in a foulard turban. It was Maman Robert, the mother of Finotte.

“He told me that, speaking with a look in his eyes I had never seen before, a Avild, far-gazing look disturbing as his maimer; for he seemed like a person cut off from all reality and he said that he must go away, leave me



for a time, but that he would return soon — ^perhaps.

“He left that night, and though I did not follow him I knew quite well that his road was the great national road that had led him so often toward Grand Anse and the home of his girl.


“'\7'ou know at St. Pierre everyone

I knew everyone — the washerwomen by the river Roxalanne — ^the fruit -sellers in the market by the fort — the old women selling carossoles at the street comers — ^they were like a big family as far as rumoi^s were concerned: a story started at dawn in the Rue du Marne Mirail would travel down to the Rue Victor Hugo by noon and be on the front by night, and you may be sure that the story of Baidaux wasn’t slow in traveling, but no repercussion of it came back to me till one day a porteuse in from the hills stopped to speak to my old landlady, Maman Jean, and gave her word of Baidaux.

“I must tell you a porteuse is — alas! was — a sort of girl commercial traveler; barefooted and with a great bundle on her head she would take goods from the city all over the island through the country parts, and this girl just in from the northwest had seen Baidaux near Grande Anse. He was looking very wild, living on the plantation of a creole named Jean Labat and — it was a pity.

“Those were her words.

“Yes, it was a pity, a thousand pities when I remembered him as he had been, so bright, intelligent, wellgrdmned and efficient, and he had been fond of me.

“The fondness of a good servant for his master, and conversely, is a thing apart from all other forms of attachment, and those four words of the porteuse seemed somehow intended for me, as one might say, ‘ Can you do nothing for him?’

“I took them to heart and determined to go over to Grande Anse, hunt about, try to find him and if possible bring him back to himself and my service. I started next day, taking with me a bag with a few things and hiring a two-horse trap.


“ Tt was only twenty miles from St.

A Pierre to Grande Anse — all the same a long journey; for the great national ix)ad winds over hill and dale and it is squealing brakes and laboring horses a good part of the Avay, but no road in the world is just like that for scenery; the purple momes and blue distances, the fields of cane and the high woods of balisier and pahn and mahogany all lie beneath a blinding light that has got in it something of the mournful nature of darkness.

“Here, indeed, to the European mind, is a land of things imknown, half known, and dimly suspected, for under this riot of color and light lies the poison of the manehaneel apple and the centipede and the fer de lance, the poison of plants dealing in death, delirium or madness and old superstitions from the shores of far-off Africa transplanted but growing firmly. ^

‘ ‘ Grand Anse is a little town lying right on the coast. Here there are great cliffs hundreds of feet in height and the beach is of black sand and nearly always alive with a thunderous surf. The cliffs form two promontories, the Pointe du Rochet and the Pointe de Croche Mort. Such is Grande Anse, and I put up at the chief inn of the town and later that day began to make inquiries about Baidaux.

“No one knew of him.

“He was interesting to St. Pierre folk because he had been born there, but here he was of no interest. Then I asked about Maman Robert, the mother of Finotte.

“Ah,yes, Finotte,she who had died some months ago. Well, she and her mother had lived in the little hamlet


lYEIRD TALES

of Mirail close to the plantation of Jean Labat; The mother liveii there still. Then eanie silence, and the cause of it was Labat, whose plantation lay near the village. He was both disliked and feared. I could tell that at once by the faces and the shrugs and the drawing back as if from the very name. He grew cocoa and sugar and had a distillery — rlwmmeri & — ^but people did not visit that plantation.

“Would anyone lead me to the house of Finotte ’s mother? No; it was close to the plantation and Jean Labat had dogs.

“I might have started out myself despite the dogs and made an attempt to find the place, feeling sure that Finotte ’s mother would be able to put me on the traces of Baidaux — but things turned out differently.


“Tt was the second evening of my stay at Grande Anse and I had gone for a walk on the black sands to watch the waves coming in under the last of the sunset; then, turning at dark, I began to climb the stiff path that leads up from the beach along the side of the great swell of ground that forms the side of the Pointe du Rochet.

‘ ‘ The night was moonless but alight with stars, and it was my idea to reach the top of the bluff, have a look at the starlit world from there and then return to Grande Anse by the track the goats have trodden out in the basalt. The lights had gone out in the little town, where everj'^body turns in at dark, but I was sure of the inn being open.

“More than half-way up I paused. On the sky-line just above I saw two men. A man of vast stature and a man of ordinary size, they were walking in single file and the latter was leading. Then they stopped. I thought they had seen me, but that was not so. They stopped only for a moment and then the smaller man pointed straight ahead; that is to say, where the bluff

ended at the cliff edge and a fall of four hundred feet sheer with nothing but the waves below.

“At the pointing the tall man went straight ahead in the direction indicated, but I had never seen a man walk like that before, the way he raised his feet, the way he held himself — why, he seemed a mechanical figure, not a man; a thing wound up to go, not a thing going of its own volition.

“He kept on till he reached the cliff edge, but he did not stop — ^he stepped over and in an instant there was nothing but the night, the stars and the roar of the sea — and the other man. The other man was Baidaux. I could see that now as he came closer along the sky-line. He came to the cliff edge and looked down; then he stood with arms folded looking at the sea.

“I had found him — but heavens, what was all this?

“I am a man nervous by nature, but still I have courage if the cause is good or if a certain thing has to be done.

“I had to find out about this and I continued climbing till I reached the top of the bluff just as he was turning from the sea and coming back toward me.

“He did not stop on seeing me; he seemed quite indifferent to this new person the night had sprung on him. Close up he recognized me.

“ ‘Baidaux,’ I said. ‘What is this?’

“He stood for a moment without speaking; then he heaved a great sigh as though awakened from sleep. ‘ It is I, Baidaux,’ said he; ‘you have seen him. It is long since we parted, and it is right that you should know about him and about her.’

‘ ‘ He was no longer a serv^ant or an ex-servant, just a being level in station with myself but with a feeling from the past that it was right tliat I should know his affairs. He who had told me of his girl and his plans for the future had now to tell me what had happened to him, culminating in



the amazing tragedy of a few moments ago.

“He led the way down the slope by way of the goat track, and then in the shelter from the wind and by a great clump of tree ferns he «sat down on the groTUid^ still warm from the vanished sun, and motioned me to his side.

‘ ‘ ‘ In St. Pierre, ’ said he, ‘ you were good to me and I opened my heart, tolluig you of my affairs and of my girl; you remember, on the Sundays I used to come over here starting before the light of day and whilst the Cahrihois still filled the woods with sound. Then the day came when I found my girl dying. Maman Robert, her mother, could not say what ailed her, and Maman Paly, who is the doctor for all the workers round these parts, said she had been seized with a fever from the woods. No matter, she died — but you will remember all this; I only say it to keep my mind from traveling astray as one might follow a string in the dark, for the things I have to tell belong indeed to the darkness that is deeper than night.

“ ‘ I came back to you and life went on. I had no need of it but I could not east it away; it is not easy for a man to lose the habit of living even after it becomes an evil habit to him.

“ ‘I went on as one dead might go on with his work, could he be moved by some spirit of life.

“ ‘Then one evening Cyrilla, who was the girl of the landlady where your rooms were, came to me and said:

“ ‘ “There is one who wishes to speak to you, Baidaux.”

“ ‘I went to the door and there I found the mother of my girl, Maman Robert.

“ ‘I said to her, “What do you want?” and she said, “I have come to speak to you about Finottc.”

“ ‘I said, “What then about Finotte?” thinking the old woman had come to me for money as is the way

with relatives of those one loves, but I had done her a wrong.

“ ‘She answered, “I have come to you from Finotte — and I would bring you to her, ’ ’ and as she spoke the flesh crawled on my bones, for I had seen Finotte buried in the place where the people are buried by the palmiste grove near her home — where of a Sunday we used sometimes to go to look on the graves of the dead and say to oui-selves, “Without doubt some day we will be here,^’ for I never had the fancy to be buried at St. Pierre,

“ ‘I listened to what the old woman said and I could say nothing to her in reply, till my lips moved and they said, “Very well — but not now — leave me and I will come.”

“ ‘You remember, I did not leave you at once after that old woman had been there. In fact I was afraid. I said to myself, “IVIaybe that old woman is not a woman but a Zombie come to betray me and steal my soul. ’ ’

I knew her well — how should one not know the mother of one’s girl? — ^but a man’s mind is strange and full of fear in the dark and in the unknown.

“ ‘Then I put all that by and said to myself, “I will go.”

“ ‘ I had always set out on foot on my journeys to Finotte ^d before dawn, so as to get there in the early day.

I could have taken the stage to Mome Rouge and got a horse from there, but I could go as I had always gone, on foot; so I went past Mome Rouge and the old Calebasse road past Ajoupa-Bouillon, past the Rividre Palaise, pausing only to rest for a moment by the great gommier that marks where the path to the village of Mirail strikes off from the road.

“ ‘Here I stayed an hour, resting in the shade, so that it was past noon when, taking the path, I sought the little house of Maman Robert.

“ ‘It lies by the cocoa fields, and a great wood of balissiei's sheltei's it from the trade wind; you can hear ^ like the voiee in the shell the sea on the beach of Gralnde Anse and now



and then from the wood the call of the siffleur de montagne.

“ 'Beyond the cocoa fields lies the rhommeri4 and beyond that the house of Jean Labat. It is all only two kilometers from here where I sit talking to you now, and the graveyard where the creoles are buried lies only half a kilometer from the house of Maman Robert.

‘ ‘ I found her in the house, but she worild say nothing of the business I had come on — only this: "I will take you after dark. ’ ’


“ ' A isTD then it happened. The moon had risen, and leading me by the shadows of the trees she crossed a cultivated field to the barren part where the wild canes and sword-grass grew.

‘ ' ‘ Here she paused where before us lay a field preparing for cultivation of manioc, and lifting up a finger she said, “Listen!”

“ 'I heard nothing — nothing but the canes talking to the wind and the voice of the sea very far away.

“ 'Again she said, “Listen!” yet I heard nothing but the cry of a night bird, far beyond the manioc field.

' ' ^ Then the clink of iron, and they came round the bend of the cane clump, breaking the earth with their hoes, followed at a little distance by a boy with a goad, as oxen are followed by their driver.

“ ‘Four figures in. the moonlight. Three men and a girl, walking not as men walk, working as the spindles in the cotton mill, without sense of mind, followed by the boy their driver — and the girl was Finotte whom I had seen buried and the tallest of the men was Jaquin who had died six months before and I was looking at them and I went not mad.

“ 'For I knew. I, Baidaux, am not an ignorant man and I knew of the cuUe Avhieh is brother to the Culte des Moris: Look you, they give a man a drink that brings the fever; he dies;

he is buried — but he is not dead; he only sleeps without breathing; his people mourn him and bury him and leave him in the grave. Then come the wicked ones and dig him up; he breathes again and lives, yet he is not truly alive like you and me, for his mind has left him, for the drug has killed his brain. He can hear and obey but he can not think, so he can hew wood and draw water and hoe the fields and cut the cane, without thought, without word, without pay — except a handful of food.

“ ‘Ah! Jean Labat, it was an evil day for you when you took the girl of Baidaux for your slave — but it is finished.

“ ‘ “Come,” I said to the old woman who was holding to me and pointing; ' ‘ our place is not here; lead me to the house of Maman Faly, the woman who deals in herbs and who helped to lay out your daughter who was once my girl. ’ ’

“ ‘I knew, for my mind had taken the sight of a vulture.

“ ‘At the little house where the evil woman lived I knocked, and she opened and with my knife-point at her throat she told all.

“ ‘ “Come,” I said, “the drug, the drug, I have need of the drug; prepare it or die. ’ ’ She had it ready prepared and she gave it to me. ‘ ‘ If this fails I will return and kill you,” I said. “It will not fail,” she replied, and I knew she spoke the truth and I killed her with a thrust of the knife and was caught up in a flame that carried me to the house of Jean Labat, where he lived alone with his wickedness.

“ ‘ I beat on his door and he opened it and I drove him with my knife into a room. He was a big man but I was a legion; he was a coward because he was udcked.

“ ‘I made him lie upon the floor. He chose the drug rather than instant death and he could not return it for my knife was at his throat. The fever came on before daybreak and I sat



with him to nui’se him till the man came who looked after the cooking and house-tending; then I left him, and calling all the hands of the plantation I spoke to them of their wickedness and they fled; so that there was nothing left but the crowing of cocks and the clapping of doors to the wind and the creeping of the great centipedes that live among the walls of the rhommerie and the three dead men and the girl in the shed where th^ rested when not at work, and me — me, Baidaux — and Labat.

“ 'I had thought to play with him

and torment him and make him my slave — but you can not play with n machine. Tonight I made him drown in the sea. He was no other use. ’

“ ‘And the three dead men and the girl?’ I asked.

“Baidaux laughed, and rose up and walked away without a word of goodbye, and though he had not replied to my question I knew that they were no longer working on that plantation.

“I watched him away down the goat track and then passing beycmd

[THE END]

============================================================
by Hickey
============================================================
the trees at the rise of the bluff.

'“I never saw him again.”

^ VTeird Story About Captain Kidd

Newgate Ghost

By WILLIAM R. HICKEY

M idnight hung over Newgate. Somewhere about 12 a squall had burst upon the jail, a burst of screaming wind that made the buildings rock, and a copious drift of rain that streamed from the high walls. The downpour increased, beating a regular tattoo upon the gutterways. Then splitting the squares of greater blacteess which marked the barred easements of the cells came flash after flash of lightning. As the blinding light died out, came the crash of thunder, harsh and fearsome, more imminently above the jail than ever. Newgate seemed to rock upon its foundations.

Coming as they did, horror and the wrath of heaven together, suddenly, erashingly, black and angry after the fairness of the day, these happenings and their settings must have terrorized the stoutest heart. But Davie

Bartmey stood unconeemed within his cell. He seemed detached, as if set apart, a spectator, for some particular whirl of events. Even when a vague yellow light crept across the floor from the direction of the corridor, and flickered unsteadily through the grille of the iron-studded door, he remained unmoved.

Davie Bartmey, late of Kidd’s crew, was sentenced to be hanged at dawn. He realized that the ultimate issue was at hand, but either because he was emotionally exhausted, or for some other I’eason, the pending climax failed to disturb him.

But now a slightly different sound caused him to move toward the barred grille. Someone, holding a lantern high, had turned into the narrow corridor leading to his cell. The stone walls, slime-covered and dripping, left scant room for the man’s broad



shoulders. Mayhap the jailer! So thought Davie as he watched the approaching figure, though he knew it was not yet dawn.

But now, as a forked streak worked its way in from the outside and snaked blindingly down the reeking corridor, Davie gave a gasp of amazement. In the momentary flash he had recognized the tall figure wearing a broad-brimmed hat and a dark cloak thi’own over the shoulders. One haud held the lantern aloft while the other clasped the loosened folds of his cloak away from the dampish walls.

‘ ‘ By the pope! ’ ’ cried Davie, pressing his face tightly against the grille.

‘ ‘ ’Tis Captain Kidd I ’ ’

The heavily cloaked figure stopped without the door and seemed to tense into an attitude of listening. But there came no sound but the trickle of water and the howling of the wind above the jail.

‘‘Aye, Davie! ’Tis Kidd! And a straight road to thy freedom! ’ ’

The voice was deep, hollow-toned, the intonation sepulchral. But Davie, in his joy, noted naught amiss.

Came the grating of a rusty key, a grinding of little-used hinges and in the wall an oblong patch of black showed where the ix'on-studded door had opened into the cell. For a space there was silence. Davie Bartmey could scarce believe his eyes. Captain Kidd... notorious buccaneer... long sought... captured... sentenced to hang.... This same Kidd was loose in Newgate, and faced him across the cell.

Kidd stood straight, his face lifted and his eyes burning.

“Nay, touch me not, Davie!” he boomed to the lad who would have embraced him, for there was affection between these two, bom of memories of glorious days amid the reek of battle.

Kidd let slip the- cloak from his shoulders, revealing round his waist a dark red sash and heavy outlas, this weapon almost concealing his own dress sword. Disengaging the sash.

he threw the cutlas to the younger man. Davie looked at Kidd with a perplexed shake of his head, but with obedience gained by years of experience, fastened the heavy weapon firmly to his waist. The blade glittered dully in the yellow light of the lantern.

“How now. Captain?” cried Davie shortly.

“I fear we must needs hurry!” Kidd spoke in deep and precise tones.

“Ho! Ho! ’ ’ chuckled Davie as at a subtle jest. “To what end? When Captain Kidd runs amuck in Newgate what need is there to huriy?”

Kidd held up a restraining hand.

“Jest not, Davie,” he protested. “ ’Twas of thee I was thinking. Thou standest in the shadow of the gaUows, yet reokest not the scant time till dawn, when thou wilt hang. ’ ’

“ ’Tis no disgrace to hang witli Kidd,” cried the younger man with feeling, “and since they have not hanged thee, what ’s to do? ”

Davie now gave little thought to the fact that Captain Kidd was here armed and unescorted by an overbearing jailer. ’Twas, perchance, strange, but he was willing to accept the situation in silence, content to abide jn patience till things were, anon, made plain. ’Twas enough that Kidd was here. He would learn in time the why and wherefore of it; meantime he awaited orders unquestioningly, as always.

Kidd gently rubbed his throat. “ ’Tis not my plan that thou shalt hang, Davie, ’Tis my hope to get thee well clear of this hole; then is my errand ended. Mayhap we will succeed; yet we roust strike "hard and quickly; of that I am persuaded. Loosen thy blade and mind the slippery flags.” He gathered his cloak closely about him and stepped across the threshold into the corridor.

F or a space Davie followed the other closely, their cautious footsteps echoing eerily, and their li^t



throwing ghastly shadows on the rafters overhead. The place was damp and chilly and silent. Aye, thought Davie, Newgate was a vile place.

Finally Kidd paused, and carefully stepping over a twisted figure huddled in a pool of blood, half turned and held the light.

“ ’Twas necesSSry, lad,” he muttererd hoarsely and the younger man nodded understandingly. “Look to the stairs!”

They ascended four steps of rough masonry and stood before a heavy door. Kidd now snuffed the light within the lantern and they were left amid the inky blackness of the passage. As his rescuer slowly pu^ed the door ajar, Davie started forward with a sense of impending expectation.

The place was as black as the pave; not a glimmer of light shone in the room. Davie, ill-acquainted with the intricate interiors of Newgate, had difficulty in clinging close • to Kidd, and in the absolute darloiess lost him more than once. Their eery and mysterious position was terrifying in its possibilities. The inequalities of the pavement retarded their progress, while a chasm of denser darkness threatened ambuscades. Davie, bewildered, became certain of one thing. He could hear the labored breathing of men. They were passing through a guardroom.

Kidd, with an uncanny sense of familiarity, gained some notion of the whereabouts of the door, and Davie hoped speedily to find himself well away; but he reckoned without that chapter of accidents which was to make this night memorable above all others in his career.

Reaching the door they listened intently. The rain had ceased, with the rumble of thunder growing fainter and fainter. Aside from the moaning of the wind another sound came from without. Slowly Kidd raised the latch

that secured the door and silently he drew it open. Outside in the huge doorway a lone guard paced sleepily back and forth. ’Twas possible they might have evaded his notice, but unfortunately Davie ’s foot rolled upon a pebble, he fell against the wall with an ejaculation, and his scabbard clanked noisily on the stone flagging. From the side of the doorway the guard picked up a lantern and slowly advanced toward the source of the disturbance he had heard. His sword unsheathed, Kidd stepped out to confront him.

Verily, never in all his experience had this guard encountered anything which approached in acute and sustained horror this apparition he beheld within the yellow rays of the upheld lantern. With quivering limbs he stared as if at a nightmare, his a^en-gray face and bulging eyes glistening grotesquely in the reflected rays of his light.

Anon he found his voice.

“Kidd!” he screamed. “Captain Kidd!”

The lantern crashed to the flagging and the man was off, his cries for the captain of the guard mingling with the screaming of the wind.

“ ’Od’s blood!” cried Kidd. “The fellow will raise the guard. To the gate, lad!” Davie felt the icy coldness of the hand that clutched his own. “Follow close and fast, Davie, for now we play at bowls with destiny!”

As they hastened after the guard the wind smote them with a mad howl of exultation, a sullen roar of encouragement. Betimes in their flight Davie was concerned with the certain strangeness attached to Kidd, and bethought him of the sti’ange actions of the guard; yet was there no answer to his increasing perplexity. Nor did he trouble to analyze. He was minded foremost with the question of whether or not they would escape.

Against the buffeting wind they



reached the gate. The guard, awakened by the clamor of their fellow, appeared in the sooty gloom of the guardhouse. Two stoim lanterns, one on each side of the gate, cast a small circle of illumination around its base. Here the four burly forms of tjie guards ran about confusedly.

“Through them, Davie, and unbar the gate! ” roared Kidd in the youth’s ear. “I’U tend this mangy crew!”

“Aye!” cried Davie, leaping forward. He lusted for the clash of steel; for the fierce hand-to-hand struggle that stirred the blood; for the reckless victory that would lift them from this hell-hole and make men of them once more. But Kidd was ahead of him. With sword in hand he had jumped full in the center of their foes. Before he had recovered his balance he pa' ried the slash of a broadsword and pricked an antagonist in the throat. Davie, before he could break through, found himself confronted by a huge fellow, who swung savagely at him with his weapon. Their blades met with a shower of sparks.

Davie, no novice, sliced and parried uuth his cutlas ^till he severed his opponent’s arm. Kidd, as Davie reached the gate, beat down a leveled pistol, inclined his head to avoid a murderous blow, ran the man through and almost in the same breath stepped a pace to the right to engage the fourth opponent — and all this with the cool precision of a fencing-master, unhurried, a flush of obvious enjoyment on his pallid cheeks.

Davie raised the heavy bar and turned to see the last man fall. As Kidd ran toward him there came sounds of confusion from the jail, and with all haste they pushed wide the gate and were soon without the walls.

“To horse!” cried Kidd, his voice hollow, though not without a ring of - triumph. He led the way across the cobbled street to the darkest shadows of some trees. Two horses stamped restlessly, bridled and saddled.

“Thou must make London, lad, and the ‘Kerrigan Arms.’ Friends await thee there.” Kidd’s voice was lost amid the shrieking wind.

“And thou?” questioned Davie as he mounted.

“Begone!” cried Kidd. “I follow close! ’ ’

In the teeth of the wind Davie rode toward London. Betimes he could hear hoofbeats behind him, but soon the voice of the wind was become a sullen animal roar, riven at intervals by distant crashes of thunder, and as the roar became a howl, a clamor, anon the hoofbeats died away.

D avie baetmey crossed the sanded floor of the taproom to where two men sat silent and gloomy.

“Bentley! Cotton!” he exclaimed joyfully. The men addressed came out of their revery in a flash and looked into the face of the newcomer.

“Thou!” gasped the one called Bentley. “Alive? We thought thee hanged. How comes it, Davie?”

Cotton stared in silence, imbelieving, his very gaze betokening interrogation.

“With Kidd’s assistance I escaped from Newgate this night past.”

“Impossible!” retorted Bentley, while Cotton drew askance.

“Nay, ’tis a facb,” insisted Davie. “Side by side we hacked our way to freedom. Even now Kidd follows close behind me.”

For a time there was silence. Cotton glanced at Bentley as if seeking understanding, but finding none he closed his eyes in bewilderment. Davie noted his friends’ strange behavior, but could not guess its purport. At length Bentley, stirring uneasily, lifted his eyes from the floor and turned to Davie.

“Knowest not that Kidd was executed yesterday at dawn?”

“’Tis a lie!” cried Davie.

“Nay,” said Bentley firmly. “We saw him hanged! ”

B ill CULLEN shaded his eyes with his hand and stared at the empty skyline. His arms, as he stood in the glittering light, showed scraggy and emaciated and his features were pinched and black. There had been strong winds blowiug and enormous seas thundering on the beach, and the ferocity of the elements had accentuated his helplessness. He turned to his companion with a gesture of despair.

“Look here,” he said, “you know as well as I do that it is physically impossible for us to hang on without water. What do you say to a swim?”

Bill’s companion groaned and shook bis head. He was a Lightened, nervous little man with pointed foxlike ears, and people who knew him ■Wiere prone to bisand him a coward. ms name, Wellington Van Wyck,

did not raise him in the estimation of his friends.

Bill studied regretfully the thing that Van Wyck had become. It was not the lack of water that gave him discomfort. His sorrow lay in the fact that Van Wyck did not possess a capacity for blind enthusiasm.

“It’s only six miles,” he urged.

“There are cannibals on that island,” replied Van Wyck. “It’s down on the chart.”

Van Wyck was a little wild and he imagined that cannibals tore themselves to pieces over their ceremonies. Bill knew that cannibals were decent and clean and orderly; but there was no explaining that to Van Wyck. He dealt with him in another fashion.

“You’re as weak and flabby -and spineless as a jelly-fish with rheuma108


tism, ” said Bill. “You’re so unsavory that the cannibals wouldn’t eat you. Why don’t you kill yourself now, and be done with it? ’Twould be a good way to economize on food! ’ ’

Van Wyck scowled and sat down upon the beach. His eyes narrowed. “We are safer here,” he said. His lips were swollen and cracked and he spoke in a thin, small voice. He assured Bill that he could survive without luxuries. He said that two men could go three days on one pint of water, and that in three or four days anything might happen.

Nothing did happen. The three days went by like great white birds at sea, and the merciless glare of the sun made life a perfect misery. Bill looked grim. He squatted on the sands and watched the pale blue water foaming and bubbling in the lagoon, and his eyes glittered. Once he turned to Van Wyck and laughed. “It has green eyes,” he said. “I saw it watching us on the beach. It plays with the moon and its tentacles are long and gelatinous!”

Sea water affects some men like hashish. That morning Bill had crawled to the lagoon on his hands and knees and swallowed more salt than was good for him. Van Wyck had warned him that it wasn ’t done, but Bill was of the disbelieving sort.

Bill’s clothes were in tatters, and he found no satisfaction in contemplating the leanness of his wrists and ankles. Whenever he held up his wrists for inspection they shook so violently that he let himself be guided by sentiment and wept. His ankles were no wider than broomsticks, and when he tried to walk he could hear them crack. He didn’t want to turn them, so he sat down and talked to Van Wyck. He made an effort to be agreeable.

“I’ll concede that the cannibals may eat us,” he said. “There is always that risk. But I don’t see why they should; and it ’s only a sixmile swim. If we stay here I can’t trust myself. ’ ’

Van Wyck recoiled and his under lip trembled. Bill laid a merciful hand upon his emaciated shoulder. “There isn’t anything that I want to keep from you,” he said. “I’ll tell you the truth. For three days I’ve been planning to kill you. I lay awake last night and watched you. I thought: ‘This thirst — this dreadful thirst ’ — he would put an end to it!”

Van Wyck shivered, and tears ran down his face and dampened his brittle red beard. His small blue eyes dilated with horror. Hot shame flushed red over his throat and ears. “But you wouldn’t really eat me?” he moaned.

“I don’t know,” replied Bill. “That’s why I suggest the swim. It’s six miles and we’re atrociously weak; but anything to keep from thinking of that! ’ ’

Bill knew that Van Wyck understood and sympathized. Van Wyck had a knife, which he kept hidden, but in his sleep he frequently took it out and felt the edge of it. Bill had been very much horrified, and he had not pretended to misunderstand the expression on Van Wyck’s face. There was something brazen in Van Wyek’s affrightment when he discovered that two could play the same sinister game.

The sun was setting and a few gray wisps of clouds were fleeing like flakes of snow across the blue sky. A single gull careened and dipped far out in the tumbling black immensity of ocean. A great silence had fallen upon the atoll, and the stubborn struggle between the two men drew to an issue before the first wild rush of stars. Van Wyck felt unsafe in the presence of Bill Cullen, and he made no effort to conceal his fear.

“Let’s get away from here as quickly as possible,” he pleaded.



“You were right. Six or seven miles isn’t a long swim, If we strip, we can make it.”

Bill extended his hand. It was like a dead thing, but Van Wyck seized it and wrung it warmly. His voice quivered. “It isn’t a long swim, old fellow,” he repeated.

Bill made a grimace. “It might rain,” he said.

“It won’t rain,” responded Van Wyck.

That settled it. They spent the evening getting ready. They hid their anguish in a bustle of preparation. Bill scurried about and secured three clams. The unfortunate bivalves were devoured with immoderate ferocity. Even their stiff, rubberlike necks afforded grist for the mill of Van Wyck’s teeth. It grieved Bill to see the shells go to waste. They sat down and congratulated themselves for the first time in a week. The clams seemed to make their situation less hopeless, but they did not on that account decide to remain on the island. Their thirst was abnormal and monstrous. It was not a thing to be talked about.

'^HEY managed to get some sleep;

but they awoke with their throats on fire. The game that they had played was over. But they avoided the thought of their new plan as much as possible, since they did not want the possibility of fatal consequences to look them in the face.

A chill in the atmosphere generally preceded the customary heat of the day; and the coldness now seemed unusually severe. They got together a few sticks and built a fire. The sun had not yet risen, but the island was immersed in the ghostly gray light of early dawning. They saw everything vividly. The boulders on the beach seemed alive. A light wind furred the steel-gray sea with tiny ripples.

“We mustn’t waste time,” said Van Wyck. It was obvious that his

dread of Bill had grown in the night. Bill’s threat had taken complete possession of his shriveled, selfish little brain. His teeth chattered over the fire and he planned a thousand assaults on the man beside him. His fingers clutched frantically at the knife which he kept hidden; but he lacked the stomach for malicious manslaughter. He feared that his cowardice might betray him into a false or dangerous move, and he endeavored to conquer his hysteria with loud boasts.

“It was all poppycock, our worrying about the cannibals,” he announced. ‘ ‘ The thing for us to do is to put on a bold front. They ’ll make gods of us!”

In the present condition of his mind these words produced a curious effect on Bill. He waved his arms wildly, and swore at the sky. “Yes,” he shouted, “they’ll do that. But sometimes they’re not satisfied with a living man. They’re head-hunters, you know. They have a way of removing the skull from a man ’s head, and drying it up, and worshiping it. They have a predilection for red hair and beards. When they find both on one head they go wild. ’ ’

Bill looked directly at Van Wyck. The latter could scarcely stand. He was swaying hysterically back and forth and running his fingers through his bristling red beard. “Perhaps I could shave it off before we start,” he wailed.

“With what?” demanded Bill.

“With the clam shells,” cried Van Wyck, dejectedly seeking to grasp some straw that would save his head.

“I refuse to permit it,” said Bill. “It’s time we started. It wouldn’t be pleasant to swim in the full glare of the sun.”

They stripped and rolled their clothes into neat, round balls. Somehow it did not seem right to abandon them helter-skelter on the beach. They had a vague idea that they might return for them. They de110


posited them gingerly beneath the one coco palm, and -vpalking solemnly to the water’s edge they scowled into the clouded mirror of sea before them.

T he water was like ice, and Bill shivered and stood on one foot. “Walk right in,” said Van Wyck. “The cannibals expect us!” His smile was ghastly and indescribable. The blue veins stood out on his scrawny neck, and his forehead was covered with globules of perspiration.

Bill was the first to go into deep water. Van Wyck stood with the icy current swirling^ about his ankles, and w^atched him wade out until he stood waist-deep. Bill turned and looked back reproachfully. “You’re coming, aren’t you?” Bill’s disdain and distrust of Van Wyck were forgotten in a momentary need for companionship.

As Van Wyck stood with the cold water numbing his toes he had an irrational desire to turn back and run wildly up the beach, and to stay on the island until thirst finished him off. The risk of the swim seemed suddenly displeasing to him. A mist passed rapidly before his eyes; he ran his fingers through his hair and gulped. But when he saw the pitiful, hurt expression on Bid’s face he put aside unworthy thoughts. “I’m coming. Bill,” he said.

He walked forward until the water eddied and swirled about his chin. His face was hideously drawn and his eyes bulged, but a forlorn ray of sunlight filtered through the clouds and played about his head, bringing out its latent manliness.

“ It *s deep, out there, ’ ’ said Bill. They both lurched forward. The sudden loss of footing accentuated Bill’s weakness, and he went under. He felt that his arms and legs were incapable of sustaining him, and he wondered if Van Wyck would try to sftve him.

He came up and struck out, his mouth full of water. The salt burned his throat and he swallowed. The water went into his stomach. He shivered. The sun beat mercilessly down upon his naked body.

He swam boldly, with a brief sense of triumph. He had conquered his physical weakness. He knew that his strength might not last, but the thought that he had not depended upon Van Wyck gave him secret satisfaction.

He could see Van Wyek’s red head on the water several yards ahead of him. The little wretch had evidently made good use of his legs and arms. “Slow up. Van Wyck!” he shouted.

“I don’t dare to!” Van Wyok called back. “If I stop I might s^k. And think how deep it is! ”

Bill resented Van Wyek’s reminder. “If you don’t ease up,” he shouted, “you’ll surely go down. This isn’t an athletic contest!”

“It is,” cried Van Wyck.. “It’s the greatest ever — even if there are head-hunters at the goal. I advise you to talk to me. It keeps me from thinking. If I think I shall go down. ’ ’ But Bill did not feel like talking. The water was cold and he had no stomach for repartee. He felt the chill of the depths beneath in his nude limbs. He swallowed great quantities of sea water. He knew that he might suffer eventually, but he did not care. He wanted to reach the island. He had never shared Van Wyck’s dread of cannibals, and the thought of the island, with its crystal-clear springs and refreshing fruits, was a precious balm to him.

He wondered if Van Wyck would survive him. The latter was swimming with frightful rapidity, leaving him definitely in the lurch. Bill envied and pitied his little companion. Van Wyck might survive to view the island, with its green, welcome frondage — but would he ever reach it?



Bill had an uncomfortable suspicion that he might sink. His initial courage threatened to give out. A mounting hysteria surged through his brain. He closed his eyes and tried not to think. There was nothing before him but a limitless stretch of malachite sea. He was fascinated and horrified by his isolation. A cold, brilliant sun blinded his eyes and dried up the sap of life in him. The water seemed to thicken, and he had great difficulty in moving his arms and legs.

B ill never knew how he reached the island. For a starving, emaciated man to swim seven miles is tremendous, and deserves some reward. Like most valiant men, Bill was conscious of his own worth. When he sighted the island he said nothing, but he thought: “This is only just. I have paid the price, and I deserve this.”,

He had also caught up with Van Wyek. The awful glare in the despairing eyes that Van Wyek turned upon him told of a fatigue immeasurable and a desire for water that had passed the bounds of sanity. Van Wyek’s eyes were living pools of liquid fire. His voice was hoarse and rasping, and he turned over and over in the water; and twice his head went under.

They were horribly near when they sighted the cannibals. Van Wyek saw them first. He was puffing and wailing, and he had been swimming on his back, and when he turned over and sighted them his face took on the aspect of an open wound. His mouth became an awful gash in a grotesque, streaked horror of countenance.

“Bill,” he called hoarsely. “It’s worse than we thought. There are hundreds of ’em!”

Fixing his frightened and horrified eyes on the shore, Bill trod water, and became suddenly very angry. The scene before him burned itself

on his brain, and robbed him of his victorjL He felt that the fates had taken an indecent advantage of him. His anger mounted, and flushed his neck and throat. “Damn their black hides!” he muttered.

A clamor and a stench arose from the rocks. The cannibals seemed to be recovering from a drinking-bout. They writhed in the sun like wounded snakes. Bill counted sixty or seventy. Their bodies were hideously tattooed, and they wore monstrous shell rings through their ears and noses. The women joined with the men in dancing and spitting venom. The hubbub was deafening. Ages of savagery and blood had shaped them into capering devils. They were all the more terrible because they had seen other white men. Bill did not expect much from them. He eonfessed a frank horror at the. situation.

“If we only had something to give ’em,” he groaned.

Van Wyek had somehow expected Bill to rally and come to his support. He needed a moral prop and he noted with horror that Bill had lost his solid, comforting manner. Van Wyck’s lips were so dry that he could scarcely get his tongue to shape words of rebuff.

“I don’t like it,” he finally blurted out. “They certainly mean business. You might swim in and test ’em!”

“Don’t be an ass!” roared Bill.

“All right, then. But if one of us doesn’t swim in, both of us are goners And since I’ve never talked with savages I’m hardly the man. You have a way with you. You could pacify a Java ape-man! Get ’em laughing — ^tell 'em a funny story! ’ ’

Bill protested venomously. “Those cannibals aren’t children,” he groaned. “You can’t spoof ’em. This is serious business. Van Wyek.”

Van Wyek refused to be convinced and he would have gone on urging Bill to commit suicide to save his own precious skin if something had



not made all conversation ridiculous. They both saw it at the same time. They looked at each other aftd said nothings. Then Van Wyck began frantically swimming toward the rocks.

The fin divided the water into two glassy walls. As it passed along it turned the dark surface to shining quicksilver. Bill had barely grasped the meaning of it when something touched his ankles and he knew that the water was infested. He gave a sudden, defiant shriek.

But the sharks did not molest him. They made straight for Van Wyek. They approached in vicious circles, and Bill saw the whites of their stomachs through the dark green water. The mouth of the largest opened and closed; and then there followed a clashing of teeth that sounded like the clanging to of ironclad portcullises.

Once the horrible gray back of the fish showed above the surface, and glittered lethally in the sun, and Bill knew that Van Wyck was done for. Van Wyck was almost near enough to the rocks to climb them, and he might reasonably have pushed the shark off with his foot, but Bill knew that he wouldn’t. Bill knew that Van Wyek was as good as eaten, and he thought: ‘ ‘ That shark will hardly be content with Van Wyck alone!”

A dozen fins intersected on the surface and occasionally one of the ravenous monsters would jump clear of the water in its eagerness to taste satisfying human flesh.

The sight got in under Bill’s skin and hurt. He closed his eyes, and endeavored to think of the grinning, leering savages on the rocks. The sharks made frantic dashes at Van Wyck and came away with something in their mouths. They would rush forward, their great jaws would snap — and there would be less and less of Van Wyek.

Bill was unable to keep his eyes shut. He tried to cover them with his

hands, but then he would go under and get an extra mouthful of salt water. He came up gasping, and saw that the sea was streaked with crimson.

As the sharks darted away from Van Wyek they left dark red trails behind them. Bill heard Van Wyck’s screams distinctly, although the, latter had reached a point where screams seemed futile. They became less and less coherent. Perhaps Van Wyck realized the absurdity of protest. Perhaps he realized that all things eventually work together for the best. Certainly the cannibals would have treated him worse. It is not pleasant to be boded in oH or hacked to pieces with little knives.

Bill saw the last of Van Wyck disappear in the maw of an enormous shark. The water turned a deeper red, and for a moment the sky and sea and even the naked, gesticulating savages seemed bathed in a crimson aura. It may have been an optical illusion, since Bill’s eyes had ceased to function with clarity. Bill knew that the sharks would look about a bit after finisliing Van Wyck, and the thought gave him no satisfaction. “You’re next on the list,” he told himself.

But somehow the sharks seemed satisfied with poor Van Wyck. Perhaps they found Van Wyck so unsavory that they did not care to risk tackling another of the same breed. They circled about for a few minutes after the last of Van Wyck had disappeared, and then they passed solemnly eastward, their fins glistening in the brilliant sunlight.

Meanwhile Bill trod water and shuddered when he thought of Van Wyck. But he didn’t let himself think of Van Wyek much after that. Van Wyck, he argued, was no longer in need of sympathy. “It is the living who have to suffer, ’ ’ he thought. It was patent that he could enjoy no security in waters infested with maneating sharks.



He shouted with delight when he discovered that the cannibals had disappeared from the rocks. He was forcefully tempted to swim in and take advantage of his amazing good fortune. But he thought better of that when he calmly considered the nature of cannibals. They were probably waiting behind the rocks for him to swim in, and he didn’t care to be boiled in oil when there were sharks to make a quicker, cleaner job of it.

He decided to attempt to round the island. His ability to keep afloat amazed and frightened him. He had evidently drawn upon some reserve strength that nature had hitherto wilfully concealed. Destiny had played him a new hand. He secretly congratulated himself, although he continued to curse fate for the cannibals.

H e got around the island somehow.

The current set to at the northern end and he had some difficulty in surmounting the backwash of black tidal water; but he finally reached a beach so clean and white and refreshing that he shouted with boyish eagerness and gratification. He swam in without reckoning consequences, for in his exultation he had forgotten or overlooked the cannibals.

He would build a fire and warm himself, and he' would eat nothing but fruit. It needed but a momentary inspection to convince him that the island contained an excess of fruit. And there was water! A tiny streamlet came out from the woods, between the boles of fabulously ancient trees, and ran down the smooth white beach.

Bill swam in and clambered up the beach. He sat down Under a hotoo tree, an absurd horror of bones and wet, clinging sand. He was a living scarecrow come out of the sea with the wisdom and weariness of ancient ocean upon him. He could scarcely open and close his

thick, black lips. His sun-baked.skin was drawn painfully taut over his protruding ribs.

A steady surf was crashing on the beach, and he paused while he listened to the roar of the breakers. He reposed for a time; then he got up, and a peal of wild laughter came from between his swollen lips. He had won out! He had hoodwinked the cannibals and sharks! In that blazing crystal world of sunlight and water he came to life again.

The sun dried him. He gulped up gallons of water from the tiny streamlet. Tt was fresh and clear. He was genuinely elated. The wind swept in from the sea in great, steady gusts, and the flaffing breeze whistled through his hair and under his armpits. He shouted and danced in sheer joy. The cannibals, he assured himself, were on the other side of the island. It was a, large island, and he could hide. The chances against him, he thought, were negligible.

He decided to look about for a hiding-place. He knew that in the vast forest of tangled vegetation he would have no difficiilty in achieving utter concealment. He could hoard up fruits and coconuts and live unmolested for days.

But when he turned he saw something peering from betw'een the boles of the distorted, antique trees that made him change his mind. He.stood still in the center of the beach, and stared, and presently he saw black, hideous figures come forward into the clearing. Others appeared crawling toward him on their hands and knees. He realized then the absurdity of attempting any sort of concealment.

He stood stark still while the cannibals advanced toward him across the smooth, white sands. He began to envy Van Wyek. He knew too much about savages. He had that and his imagination to blame for the little hell that he endured. How



could he guess that they did not want revenge? A savage considers everything an insult. He knew that he should not have landed upon their infernal island. He wanted to apologize to them, and to make them understand. He had no desire to lord it over them, and he admitted to himself that he had deliberately injured their sense of dignity.

At first he thought that they intended to make short work of him. They looked sinister. There were three dozen of them in the guard of honor that advanced toward him across the beach and he did not like their faces. Their faces were black and swollen and ugly and incredibly tattooed, and their cheeks were smeared with green and blue paint. One of them paraded a discarded panama hat. BiU could not imagine where he had obtained the hat. The wretch had probably repaid the owner by boiling him in oil. It wasquite the thing twenty years ago to burn traders and missionaries in oil, although the custom has been outgrown among respectable savages. But the hat looked at least twenty years old. And one of the devils smoked a corncob pipel- They were tall, solemn-looking cusses, and BiU did not pretend to like them.

But when they got close to him they formed a circle, shutting him off from the sea, and he felt then that everything was worse than he had anticipated. When cannibals begin forming into rings it is customary to give up hope. They were grinning hideously and Bill could count the number of teeth in the rings which they wore about their necks.

Some of the leanest and tallest wore thirty or forty teeth. And BiU knew that a savage never wears more than one tooth -from a single head. It is not considered decent. And each tooth means — but Bill never wept over spUt milk. He felt that his own head was in imminent danger, and the knowledge annoyed

and frightened him. But he did not dare let on that he feared them, and he stood up very stiff and straight, and scowled into their narrow, bloodshot eyes.

They seemed to resent his hostility. It seemed to hurt them, and BiU was amazed at the hint of reproach in their glances. A cannibal is something of a gentleman, and he would not deliberately hurt a man’s feelings for the world. And Bill’s resentment somehow seemed an insult to their hospitality. BiU understood how they felt, and he realized that he had behaved Uke a boor. But his teeth were knocking together like billiard balls, and a stern front was necessary.

But he could not look his captors in the face. They came close to him, and then one of them stepped forward and patted him on the back. He spoke and BiU understood him. BiU knew nearly aU of the Bantu languages, and the savage spoke a corruption of several.

“We thank our brother for the very fine gift,” he said. “We are indeed grateful!”

Although BUI could understand what the black devil said a reply was utterly beyond him. The grammatical construction of Bantu overwhelmed him. BiU kept his mouth shut and stared, pretending not to understand.

The spokesman turned and beckoned. A tall, lean youth with protruding yellow teeth came quickly forward. Save for a slight hint of pity in his small eyes his face bore no expression. He held in his right hand a large, round object which ^ Bill did not immediately recognize. The spokesman nodded and took the object by its hair. He stroked it effusively, calling upon it to protect and succor him in war and in peace. He begged that the object’s pity and benevolence would extend to the whole tribe. He praised



the object in terms that would have embarrassed any living man. Then he turned to Bill and made a very low bow. “It came ashore before you,” he said. “And we are most grateful! ’ ’

Bill opened his eyes wide with horror.. He sought to express his agony in words, but no sound came from between his black, swollen lips. A sudden shriek would perhaps have saved him, and Bill tried hard to make a sound in his throat. But his horror lay too heavily upon him. He made a wild, horrid gesture with his

right arm and collapsed in a heap upon the sand.

Three months later Bill was taken off by a trading-sloop. He blabbered idiotically about the right of a head to decent burial and made uncomplimentary allusions to the wearing of teeth. He evidently sought to stir up anger against the cannibals, but the traders ignored his insinuations, since he was obviously mad and since the cannibals had worshiped him and given him the run of the island. The memory of Van Wyck’s enerimsoned head had addled his wits.

A Brief W eird Story Is

A Matter of Sight

By AUGUST

ERHAPS you have been in Vienna?”

“ Yes, ” I said slowly. “Yes, I have been in Vienna.”

For a moment there was silence in the ear. I took another good look at the man who had chosen to sit beside me rather than to take one of the many empty seats. He wore a well-trimmed Vandyke beard, which was as black as the long wavy hair on his uncovered head. His nose was sharply aquiline. His eyes were hidden by very large, black glasses, attached to a somewhat blacker cord of an expensive make. He wore a long black cape, buttoned tightly about the neck, where a black silk muffler stuck out. His left hand rested on the gold top of a very fine walking-stick which I would have given much to possess; the tapering


fingers of his right were engaged in tapping a cigarette on the sill of the open window.

“Then you have seen the famous Hapsburg Palace? ’ ’

“Oh! yes,” said I. “That is what most Americans go to Vienna for.”

“Yes, I suppose it is so. That and beer — very fine beer in Vienna. You have tasted it, of course? And eaten bologna. 111 Avager.”

“Both.” I laughed.

“You liked the palace?”

“Very 'much. A sumptuous place. I just read somewhere that part of it was recently destroyed by fire.” “An unfortunate occurrence.” “Very. It is really a magnificent structure.”

“And did you promenade in the park?”



“Quite right.” I laughed again. “Routine for the American tourist.”

“There are many things to see in the park.”

“Stately trees.”

He waved them away with the hand that held the cigarette. He frowned a little.

“Have you ever heard of second sight?”

“Second sight? Yes, certainly.”

“And of Argazila and his fourth dimension? ”

“Argazila?” I could not place the name. Argazila?... What did this man have to sit beside me for!

“You do not know him? Pew do. He was — he is — what is one to say? was, is, will be — ^they are all so alike out there.” He flung his arm upward and outward. “He is a Persian; little known, I daresay, but of whose importance the world shall soon know. Now, he is nothing; only a few, a very few, know.”

I said nothing. There was nothing I could have said.

“ It is to the fourth dimension that I refer when I say that there is much to see in the park. Everything that was and will be is in the fourth dimension. You see?”

I nodded hopefully, but I certainly did not see.

“It is interesting to go through the park probing the fourth dimension. One can easily see Maria Theresa walldng about with Francis as a little boy.”

“Yes?” I decided to humor him. One does not often come across so rare a specimen of an intoxicated man. But he really did not act it. His talk, though...

“In Paris I saw the French Revolution re-enacted. Let me tell you that the real man behind that catastrophe, the man who sparred on Robespierre, Danton, Marat, and the others, was that famous charlatan known as Count Cagliostro. ”

“Yes?” said I again. I really

could not think of anything else to say. What would you have said?

“Anyone would have enjoyed seeing Napoleon march through Paris.” For a few minutes he was silent.

“Look!” said I, pointing to a brakeman signaling us with a red lantern. “Look at that man’s face! ’ ’ The train was slowly starting to move. ‘ ‘ He could be reading a newspaper.”

“Yes, he could very well be reading a newspaper. I like the way his mouth turns down at the corners; as if he were reading something unpleasant.” -

For a moment the brakeman was outlined in the light of a side-tracked train. He looked so small. The stranger again started to speak; he did not appear to have looked at the brakeman, and yet...

“You have probably been in Pisa?”

“And have seen the tower? Yes,” said I, “I have.”

“I saw them building it.” The man didn’t sound drunk. Perhaps his mind...? Sometimes, you know, you do find one or two; perfectly harmless if humored.

“Yes?” I said again. It irritated me that I said it; one would think that I had absolutely no vocabulary. But in such a position...

“I watched the succession of the Ptolemies from the' death of Alexander the Great to the last of them. You should see Cleopatra. She isn’t really so wonderful; I ’ve seen a good many girls — thei*e’s one just ahead — ^that leave Cleopatra in the distance. ’ ’

I wasn’t going to say “yes” again; so I held my peace. So did he. Irritating, he could be. Perhaps if I said it in French?

“Yes?” I said at last. I thought of all the blame that rested on Argazila ’s shoulders.

“^I saw the building of Rome; the destruction of Cartha^. I saw Hannibal, Scipio, Massinissa, Caesar,



Anthony — ^all of them. Nero interested me immensely; so did Caligula. They actually did burn the Christians; great sport they made of it.”

The annoying affirmative stood on the tip of my tongue.

“Damn!” said I loudly. The girl in front looked around with raised eyebrows.

“Odd that you shouldn’t want to say ‘yes,’ ” said the stranger. “Such an easy word.” How did he know that I didn’t want to say yes! He continued. “That question, too, is simple. Your thoughts make vivid telepathic impressions. ’ ’

The train flew past a small village.

“What village was that?” asked the stranger casually.

“I couldn’t say,” I replied, somewhat nettled. “I find it difficult enough to keep in mind the main stations here and on the Continent. However, I’m sure we’re very near Dover.”

“ That is where I get off. ”

“And!”

For a while the stranger was silent. About thirty miles from Dover he began again.

“You know, second sight wouldn’t be possible if it were not for the vibrations sent out by matter.”

“Yes?”

“Yes. Everything sends out vibrations. Fiiture and past events send out vibrations — in the fourth dimension, of course.”

“But how can you get into this fouidh dimension?”

“Telepathy, my dear sir. One merely projects thought waves into the fourth dimension.”

I wondered whether or not to turn this man over to the authorities; certainly he was demented! What else could account for his conversation. I have never heard a conversation so outre.

‘ ‘ Have you traveled much? ” There was a disconcerting smile on his lips — almost as if I had secretly told him my thoughts.

“Oh^ a bit. Mostly in Europe, however. ’ ’

“Never been to China?”

“No.”

“I went to China years ago. I studied the history of China in the fourth dimension from far beyond the Hsia Dynasty, about 2300 B. C., to the present day. The civilization of ancient China has never been equaled. Collectors become very enthusiastic over original Ming pottery; they should see Shan pottery. You would have liked to see ShihHwang-Ti engineer the building of the Great Wall of China.”

A bi'akeman stuck his head into the ear and shouted, “Dover!” The stranger jumped up before the train stopped and got out into the aisle. He tapped the toe of his shoe with his ebony cane.

“Yes,” he said. “I liked China. I had a horrible experience there, by the way.”

The brakeman stuck his head into the car and shouted again; I remembered that over here brakemen were called guards. The train began to slow down. I got up slowly and reached for my portfolio.

“I was in the Boxer Rebellion of 1900,” he began again. Both of us moved out onto the platform. In the semi-darkness the stranger turned to me. “The Chinese ai*e most diabolical at times — especially in the way they torture their prisoners.”

“Yes?” said I for the last time.

“Yes. Look what they did to me!”

With a sudden jerk at the black cord he pulled the glasses from his face. For a moment he confronted me; then he jumped from the still moving train into the night. I fell back against the wall of the car, my grip tightening convulsively on the iron railing. I think I screamed; I do not quite remember.


[THE END]

============================================================
by Whitehead
============================================================
For where his eyes should have been, there were two black pits!

An Out-of-the-Or dinary Story Is This

The Tabernacle

By HENRY S. WHITEHEAD

KAZMIE STEOD knelt tery low

in his seat in the pine pew of ■ St. Stanislas’ Church just after he had come back from the altar rail, so low, by purpose, that no one up there at the altar, not Father Gregoreff nor any of the acolytes, could possibly see him. The clean handkerchief which he had taken to church, unfolded, was still in his left hand where he had put it, somewhat damp because of his emotion and the fact that it was a warm April day. It was, indeed, so warm that his bees had swarmed the evening before and he had got them, successfully, into the new hive.

The Holy Host remained intact, between his teeth, held lightly. He felt sure that It was not even damp, because he had carefully wiped his lips and teeth, in that same low-kneeling posture, with the clean handkerchief just before rising, genuflecting, proceeding to the altar.

He placed the handkerchief over his mouth now and to the accompaniment of several brief prayers took the

AUTHOR’S NOTE; This is a very ancient tale, running tack far into the early history of religion in Europe. It has cropped up. traditionally, in many lands and in various periods. Members of the older religions will understand its implications without explanations. To those unvers^ in the traditional belief concerning the Sanctisnimum (the consecrated bread of Holy Communion among the older. Catholic, religions ). it may be mentioned that this bread, known as the Host. is. after consecration at the hands of a validly ordained priest, understood to be "really” the Body of the Lord. The type of this "reality” varies among different theologians, but the belief in the essential identity of the consecrated Host with the True Body, with all the implications which follow this belief, is general. As the Lord (Jesus) is tiord of the Universe according to ancient Christian belief. His Body should be sacred to all His creatures. Hence this very ancient tradition which is here told in a modern setting. — Henry S. Whitehead. PfaJD.. F.A.G.S. ‘


Host from his mouth. He held It, very gently, the Sanctissimum, in the clean handkerchief. He felt very strange. He had never done such a thing before.

Bending now, very low, he felt for the small, thin wafer inside the clean handlcerehief ’s folds, broke off a tiny piece, and placed It in his mouth. He must receive Holy Communion or it would be further sacrilege. He swallowed It, with difficulty, for his mouth, under this stress, had remained very dry. He said the prayers of Reception with his mind on them, but as rapidly as he could. He did not leave out a Avord of those prayers.

Then, and only then, he slipped the handkerchief into his pocket. He was kneeling upright, like the rest of the congregation, the men with shining newly shaved faces, the women, on the other side of the central alleyvny, with multicolored shawls over their sleek heads, whai Father Gregoreflf was turning toward the congregation at the end of the Mass.

“Ite, missa est,” boomed Father Gregoreff, and turned to the altar’s end for the Last Gospel.

Kazmir spoke to nobody on the Avay home. That, too, he imagined, Avould be sacrilegious, for, like a priest, he was carrying the Sanctissimum upon him.

He went straight to the ne^v hive. There were almost no flowers out at this time of year. On the broad landing-board, several dozens of bees Avere lined up in rows, like little soldiers, finishing the sugar-and-Avater honey he had placed for them to keep them



in the hive where he had placed them last night. He was sure the new queen was within. She would be, of course, in the center of the swarm, and he had lifted them, very carefully, off the bush where they had swarmed, into the new hive. It had been an unusually large swarm. He had worn his high rubber boots, his bricklayer’s gloves, and a folded net about his head over his cap. Even so, he had had a few stings.

He was going to make this hive the greatest hive there was! He was going to use old, old “magic,” the way it had been done in the Old Country, for luck and for the success of a vegetable garden, and for many other good purposes, even though it was, good purpose and all, sacrilege. God didn ’t mind such things. It was only the priests who objected. A little bit of the Host placed inside the hive. That was all. That would make the bees prosper, bring luck to the new hive. Over here, in America, you didn’t hear so much about doing things like that. But Kazmir laiew what to do for bees. Those old-time ways were good ways. They worked. The Holy Host had many virtues. Along with garlic-flowers it was a sure safeguard from vampires. Placed in a coffin, he had heard. It kept the body from decay. With even a tiny crumb of It, wrapped tightly in a piece of clean linen, sewed into your clothes. It was sure proof against the Bad-Eye.

There was practically no sound inside the hive. The bees on the landing-board moved slowly, lethargically. If this heat held, there would be flowers soon, and he could discontinue the sugar-and-water “honey.” Too much of that and the bees laid off working! Bees were like humans, very much like humans, only dumber! They never took a rest, had no i*elaxations.

He raised the hive’s top, carefully, leaned it against the side of the packing-box on which the hive itself stood. There were the frames, just as he had

placed them yesterd^, a little old comb, for the bees to m^d onto, near the middle. That was all right. He removed the crushed bodies of several bees which had got caught when he had placed the top on the hive in yesterday ’s dusk of evening. The new queen would be do'vvn inside there, somewhere, surrounded by her eager, devoted workers, the swarm which had accompanied her out of the older hive yesterday.

Kazmir crossed himsell furtively, and glanced around. Nobody was looking; indeed nobody was, at the moment, in sight. He took the handkerchief out of his pocket, touched his right thumb and the index finger to his lips reverently, extracted the Sanctissimum and dropped It into the open hive between the frames. Then he replaced the top and went into the house. The bees ^ould prosper now, according to all the old rules. Kazmir had never heard of putting such a charm on bees before. That was his own idea. But — ^if it worked as the old tales said it worked, for horses and cows and the increase of a flock of goats, why not for bees?

It Avas a quarter past six by the kitchen clock. Time for the woman and kids to be getting up for seven o’clock Mass. He went up the rough stairs to awaken his wife and their tAvo children. This done, he returned to the kitchen to boil four eggs for his breakfast.

T T TURNED out to be a very qiiiet hive,

the new one. Its bees, too, seemed to be stingers. He received many stings during the summer, more stings than usual, it seemed to him. He had to warn Anna and the children to keep away from it. “They got a lotta pep, them bees,” he said, and smiled to himself. It was he, applying an old idea Avith true American progressiveness, who had “pepped them up”.- He gave the process this phrase, mentally, Avithout the least thou^t of incongruity, of irreverence. The efficacy of



the Sanetissinmin was the last, the verj" last thing- that Kazmir Strod would hare doubted, in the entire scheme of the world.’s regulations and priiiciples.

It was only occasionally nowadays that Kazmir worked at bricklaying. Ten years before, in the Old Country, he had learned that trade. Always a wilful, strong-headed youth, independent of mind, he had flown in the face of his family custom to leam a trade like that. All his family, near Kovno, had been market-gardeners. That strong-headedness had been responsible for his emigration, too. There had been many disputes between him and his father and older brothers. The strong-headedness and the trade! There were great openings for a good bricklayer in America.

But, since he had married — rather late in life, to this Americanized Anna of his, at twenty-two; he was twentyseven now — with enough money to buy this place, earned at the bricklaying, he had reverted to his gardening. There wasn 't as much in gardening, even with good land like this, and sometimes Anna would nag him to take a job when a contractor offered one, but there were all the deep-rooted satisfactions of the soil; the love of it was bred deep in his blood and bones, and he had a way with tomatoes and early peas and even humdrum potatoes.

This devotion to the soil, he felt, triumphantly, had been amply justified that August. He had an offer to go and be gardener on a great estate, a millionaire’s, eighteen miles away. The offer included a house, and the use of what vegetables he needed for Ms family. He accepted it, and told Anna afterward.

Anna was delighted. He had not been sure of how she would take it, and her delight pleased him enormously. For several days it was like a new honeymoon. He spread it all over the community that he wanted to sell his place.

He got six hundred dollars, cash', more than he had paid for it. There was a couple of thousand dollars worth of improvement which he had dug into its earth, but six hundred dollars was six hundred dollars! The title passed, after a day and a night 's wrangling with the purchaser, Tony Dvorcznik, a compatriot. Kazmir and Anna and the children moved their possessions in a borrowed motor-truck.

I T WAS in October that Tony Dvorcznik killed off the bees. Tony did not understand bees, and his wife was afraid of them. He hired Stanislas Bodinski, who was one of Father Gregoreff 's acolytes, to do the job for him, for a quarter-share of what honey might be discovered within the four hives. Stanislas Bodinski arrived, with sulfur and netting. Tony and Ms wife stood at a little distance, watching interestedly j telling each other to watch out for stings; marveling at Stanislas Bodinski 's nonchalance, deftly placing his sulfurcandles, rapidly stuffing the horizontal opening above the landing-boards, the edges all around the hive tops.

Stanislas joined them, removing his head-net, and stood with them while the sulfur fumes did their deadly work inside the hives. Later, they all walked over to the hives, Stanislas reassuring Tony’s wife. “They ain’t no danger now. They’re all dead by now. Anyhow, they die after they sting you, but you needn’t worry none. Jus’ the same, you better keep away a little. They ’s some bees was out the hives when I stopped up them cracks. They’ll be flyin’ around, kinda puzzled, now.”

The comb was lifted out, to exclamations on the part of Tony’s wife, into a row of borrowed milk pans. It piled up, enormously, honey covering the bottoms of the pans viscidly.

“You’d wonder where it all come from,” said Tony’s wife, again and again, “outa them little hives! You



wouldn’t think they’d hold that much stuff, would y&V’

Stanislas Bodinski arrived at the last hive, with two remaining milk pans, and proceeded to lift the top away from the hive. They saw him look in. Then he stopped and looked close. Then he stepp^ back, raised his arms in an amazing ge^ure of wonderment, sank to his knees beside the hive, and made the sign of the cross on his breast many times.

Wonderingly, they approached, Tony’s wife murmuring:

“What’s hitin’ him? Is he gone loony, huh?” Then: “Hey, Tony, they mus ’ be somethin ’ awful strange in that-there hive, huh — for Stan to ae’ that way!”

There was indeed something strange in the hive, although there was very little honey in it. They did not dare touch it, and, after Stanislas had somewhat recovered himself, and put back the top with hands shaking, the three of them, just as they stood, Tony’s wife not even taking off her apron, started for the rectory, to get Father Gregoreff.

The priest came, rather gramblingly, Stanislas following half a block behind the other three. He had run into the sacristy to get the priest’s cope and a stole, and something which he had to hold onto, in his pocket, to keep it quiet! He hoped Father Gregoreff would not look behind him and see what he was carrying. He was a bit of a mystic, this Stanislas; otherwise he would not, perhaps, have continued to be an acolyte after he was nineteen. He, too, had come from near Kovno, like Kazmir Strod. Stanislas had listened to strange tales in his earlier boyhood, back there in the Old Country.

He came in through Tony Dvorcznik’s gate well behind the rest, furtively. They were all standing, looking at the hive, when he came around the comer of the house. He walked around them, knelt before his priest, seized and kissed his hand. He handed the amazed Father Gregoreff his stole, and the priest put it on mechanically, murmuring, ‘ ‘ What ’s this? what’s all this?” Stanislas rose, hastily invested his pastor with the white cope, and stepped over to the hive. He knelt, and turning to the others, motioned them, authoritatively, to kneel also. They did so, all three, the priest’s cope trailing on the ground, a few feet behind Stanislas.

Stanislas, making the sign of the cross, reached his arms into the hive. Carefully, the sweat running down his face, he lifted out a shining yellow, new-wax structure, intact, with infinite care. He turned, still on his knees, and placed what he had lifted in the priest’s hands. It was a little church, made of wax, made by the bees whose dead bodies, suffocated by sulfur fumes, now littered the dead hive.

Then Stanislas took the saering bell from his left-hand pocket, and, his head on the ground, rang it to indicate to all who might be within earshot that they should prostrate themselves before the Sanctissimum.

1. Herbertus Turrium, De MiracuUs, iii, 30. Ed. Chiffet, pp. 378-379 (ef. Petrus Venorabilis, D« MiracmXis, i, I., Mispie, CliXXXIX, 861-8M).

2. C®sarius, ix, 8, Ed. Stranpte, IT, 172-173.

3. Etienne de B<Kirbon. Septem Dona, Ed. XiCroy de la Marche, Anecdotes Historiques, 1877, pp. 266. 267, and 328.

4. Giraldus Cambrensis, Gemma Eeclesiastica, i, n, Ed. Brewer, 11, 42-43.

6. Herbert, Catalogue of Roonamces, III (1910), 23, 388, 448, 517, 647.

6. An Alphabet of Tales, No, 695, Ed. Banbs, 11

(1906), 463 (from Caesarius, 2 supra). Cf.

Deecker Lwbiseke Geschicten and Sagen, 6th Ed.,

p. 280.

7. Blaetter far Ponvmersche Volkskunde, IX (1901), 3. (Host buried in a garden to improve the crop — 1482, A. D.). Zeitsehrift der Geaellsehaft fur Sehlesiaia-Holstevniacke Geschictc, XT.V (1916), 199.

A Descent Into the Maelstrom

By EDGAR ALLAN POE

The ways of God in Nature, as in Providence, are not as our ways; nor are the models that we foame in any way commensurate to the vastness, profundity, and unaearchableness of His works, which have a depth in them greater than the icell of Democritus. — Joseph Glauville.

W E HAD now reached the summit of the loftiest crag. For some minutes the old man seemed too much exhausted to speak.

“Not long ago,” said he at length, “and I could have guided you on this route as well as the youngest of my sons; but, about three years past, there happened to me an event such as never happened before to mortal man — or at least such as no man ever survived to tell of — and the six hours of deadly terror which I then endured have broken me up body and soul. You suppose me a very old man — but I am not. It took less than a single day to change these hairs from a jetty black to white, to weaken my limbs, and to unstring my nerves, so that I tremble at the least exertion, and am frightened at a shadow. Do you know I can scarcely look over this little cliff without getting giddy?”

The ‘ ‘ little cliff, ’ ’ upon whose edge he bad so carelessly thrown himself down to rest that the Aveightier portion of his body hung over it, while he was only kept from falling by the ten122

ure of his elboAV on its extreme and slippery edge — ^this “little cliff” arose, a sheer unobstructed precipice of black shining rock, some fifteen or sixteen hundred feet from the world of crags beneath us. Nothing would have tempted me to be within a half dozen yards of its brink. In truth so deeply was I excited by the perilous position of my companion, that I fell at full length upon the ground, clung to the shrubs around me, and dai’ed not even glance upward at the sky — ^while I struggled in vain to divest myself of the idea that the foundations of the mormtain were in danger from the fury of the winds. It was long before I could reason myself into sufficient courage to sit up and look out into the distance.

“You must get over these fancies,” said the guide, “for I have brought you here that you might have the best possible view of the scene of that event I mentioned — and to tell you the whole story with the spot just under your eye.

“We are now,” he continued, in that particularizing manner which distinguished him — “we are now close upon the Norwegian coast — in the sixty-eighth degree of latitude — in the great province of Nordland — and in the dreaiy district of Lofoden. The mountain upon whose top we sit is



Helseggen, the Cloudy. Now raise yourself up a little higher — ^hold on to the grass if you feel giddy — ^so — and look otit, beyond the Mt of vapor beneath us, into the sea.”

I looked dizzily, and beheld a wide expanse of ocean, whose waters wore so inky a hue as to bring at once to^ my mind, the Nubian geographer’s account of the Mare Tenehrarum. A panorama more deplorably desolate no human imagination can conceive. To the right and left, as far as the eye could reach, there lay outstretched, like ramparts of the world, lines of horridly black and beetling cliffs, whose character of gloom was but the more forcibly illustrated by the surf which* reared high up against it its white and ghastly crest, howling and shrieking for ever. Just opposite the promontory upon whose apex we were placed, and at a distance of some five or six miles out at sea, there was visible a small, bleak-looking island; or, more properly, its position was discernible through the wilderness of surge in which it was enveloped. About two miles nearer the land arose another of smaller size, hideously craggy and barren, and encompassed at various intervals by a cluster of dark rocks.

The appearance of the ocean, in the space between the more distant island and the shore, had something very unusual about it. Although, at the time, so strong a gale was blowing landward that a brig in the remote offing lay to under a double-reefed trysail, and constantly plunged her whole hull out of sight, still there was here nothing like a regular swell, but only a short, quick, angry cross-dashing of water in every direction — as well in the teeth of the wind as otherwise. Of foam there was little except in the immediate vicinity of the roeks.

“The island in the distance,” resumed the old man, “is called by the Norwegians Vurrgh. The one midway is Moskoe. That a mile to the northward is Ambaaren. Yonder are

Islesen, Hotholm, Keildhelm, Suarven, and Buckholm. Further off — ^between Moskoe and Vurrgh — are Otterholm, Flimen, Sandflesen, and Stockholm. These are the true names of the places — but why it has been thought necessary to name them at all, is more than either you or I can understand. Do you hear anything? Do you see any change in the water?”

W E HAD now been about ten minutes upon the top of Helseggen, to which we had ascended from the interior of Lofoden so tliat we had caught no glimpse of the sea until it had burst upon us from the summit. As the old man spoke, I became aware of a loud and gradually increasing sound, like the moaning of a vast herd of buffaloes upon an American prairie; and at the same moment I perceived that what seamen term the chopping character of the ocean beneath us was rapidly changing into a current which set to the eastward. Even while I gazed, this current acquired a monstrous velocity. Each moment added to its speed — to its headlong impetuosity. In five minutes the whole sea, as far as Vurrgh, was lashed into ungovernable fury; but it was between Moskoe and the coast that the main uproar held its sway. Here the vast bed of the waters, seamed and scarred into a thousand conflicting channels, burst suddenly into frenzied convulsion — heaving, boiling, hissing — gyrating in gigantic and innumerable vortices, and all whirling and plunging on to the eastward with a rapidity which water never elsewhere assumes, except in precipitbus descents.

In a few minutes more, there came over the scene another radical alteration. The general surface grew somewhat more smooth, and the whirlpools, one by one, disappeared, while prodigious streaks of foam became apparent where none had been seen before. These streaks, at length, spreading out to a great distance, and entering



into combination, took unto themselves the gyratory motion of the subsided vortices, and seemed to form the germ of another more vast. Suddenly — very suddenly — this assumed a distinct and definite existence, in a circle of more than a mile in diameter. The edge of the whirl was represented by a broad belt of gleaming spray; but no pai’tiele of this slipped into the mouth of the terrific funnel, whose interior, as far as the eye could fathom it, was a smooth, shining, and jet-black wall of water, inclined to the horizon at an angle of some forty-five degrees, speeding dizzily round and round with a swaying aild sweltering motion, and sending forth to the Avinds an apalling voice, half shriek, half roar, such as not even the mighty cataract of Niagara ever lifts up in its agony to Heaven.

The mountain trembled to its very base, and the rock rocked. I threw myself upon my face, and clung to the scant herbage in an excess of nervous agitation.

“This,” said I at length, to. tire old man — “this can be nothing else than the great whii’lpool of the Maelstrom.”

“So it is sometimes termed,” said he. “We Norwegians call it the Moskoe-strom, from the island of Moskoe in the midway. ’ ’

The ordinary account of this vortex had by no means prepared me for what i saw. That of Jonas Ramus, which is perhaps the most circumstantial of any, can not impart the faintest conception either of the magnificence OP of the horror of the scene — or of the wild bewildering sense of the novel which confounds the beholder. I am not sure from what point of view the writer in question surveyed it, nor at what time; but it could neither have been from the summit of Helseggen, nor during a storm. There are some passages of this description, neveiiheless,> which may be quoted for their details, although their effect is exceedingly feeble in conveying an impression of the spectacle.

‘ ‘ Between Lofoden and Moskoe, ’ ’ he says, “the depth of the water is betwen thirty-six and forty fathoms; but on the other side, toward Ver (Vun’gh) this depth decreases so as not to afford a convenient passage for a vessel without the risk of splitting on the rocks, which happens even in the calmest weather. When it is flood, the stream runs up the country between Lofoden and Moskoe with a boisterous rapidity; but the roar of its impetuous ebb to the sea is scarce equaled by the loudest and most dreadful cataracts; the noise being heard several leagues off, and the vortices or pits are of such an extent and depth, that if a ship comes within its attraction, it is inevitably absorbed and carried down to the bottom, and there beat to pieces against the rocks; and when the water relaxes, the fragments thereof are thrown up again. But these intervals of tranquillity are onl,y at the turn of the ebb and flood, and in calm weather, and last but a quarter of an hour, its violence gradually returning. When the^ stream is most boisterous, and its fury heightened by a storm, it is dangerous to come within a Norway mile of it. Boats, yachts, and ships have been carried away by not guarding against it before they were canned within its reach. It likewise happens frequently, that whales come too near the stream, and are overpowered by its violence; and then it is impossible to describe their bowlings and bellowings in their fruitless struggles to disengage themselves. A bear once, attempting to SAvim from Lofoden to Moskoe, Avas caught by the stream and home down, Avhile he roared terribly, so as to be heard on shore. Large stocks of firs and pine trees, after being absorbed by the current, rise again broken and tom to such a degree as if bristles grew upon them. This plainly shoAvs the bottom to consist of craggy rocks, among which they are whirled to and fro. This stream is regulated by the flux and



reflux of the sea — ^it being constantly high, and low wa-ter every six hours. In the year 1645, eaily in the morning of Sexagesima Sunday, it raged with such noise and impetuosity that the very stones of the houses on the coast fell to the ground. ’ ’

In regard to the depth of the water, I could not see how this could have been a^ei’tained at all in the immediate vicinity of the vortex. The “forty fathoms ’ ’ must have reference only to portions of the channel close upon the shore either of Moskoe or Lofoden. The depth in the center of the Moskoestrom must be unmeasurably greater: and no better proof of this fact is necessary than can be obtained from even the sidelong glance into the abyss of the whirl which may be had from the higiiest crag of HeLseggen. Looking down freni this pinnacle upon the howling Phlegethon below, I could not help Sihiling at the simplicity with which the honest Jonas Ramus records, as a matter difficult of belief, the anecdotes of the whales and the bears, for it appeared to me, in fact, a self-evident thing, that the largest ships of the line in existence, coming within the influence of that deadly attraction, could resist it as little as a feather the hurricane, and must disappear bodily and at once.

The, attempts to account for the phenomenon — some of which, I remember, seemed to me sufficiently plausible in perusal — now wore a very different and unsatisfactory aspect. The idea generally received is that this, as well as three smaller vortices among the Perroe Islands, “have no other cause than the collision of waves rising and falling, at flux and reflux, against a ridge of rooks and shelves, which confines the water so that it precipitates itself like a cataract; and thus the higher the flood rises, the deeper must the fall be, and the natural result of all is a whirlpool or vortex, the prodigious suction of which m sufficiently knovm by lesser experiments. ’ ’ — These are the

words of the Encyclopedia Britannica. Kircher and others imagine that in the center of the channel of the Maelstrom is an abyss ])enetrating the globe, and issuing in some very remote part — ^the Gulf of Bothnia being somewhat decidedly named in one instance. This opinion, idle in itself, was the one to which, as I gazed, my imagination most readily assented;, and, mentioning it to the guide, I was, rather surprized to hear him say that, although it- was the view almo.st universally entertained of the subject by the Norwegians, it nevertheless was not his own. As to the former notion he confessed his inability to comprehend it; and here I agreed with him —, for, however conclusive on paper, it. becomes altogether unintelligible, and even absurd, amid the thunder of the abyss.

“You have had a good look at the whirl now,” said the old man, “and if you will creep round this crag, so as to get in its lee, and deaden the roar of the water, I will tell you a story that will convince you I ought to blow something of the Moskoestrom. ’ ’

I placed myself as desired, and he proceeded..

“IVTyself and my two brothers

-lYx once owned a schooner-rigged smack of about seventy tons burthen, with which we were in the habit of fishing among the islands beyond Moskoe, nearly to Vurrgh. In all violent eddies at sea there is good fishing, at proper opportunities, if one has only the courage to attempt it; but among the whole of the Lofoden coastmen,. w'e three were the only ones who made a regular business of going out to the islands, as I tell you. The usual grounds are a great way lower dowm to the southward. Thei-e fish can be got at all hours, without much risk,, and therefore these places are preferred. The choice spots over here among the rocks, however, not only yield the finest variety, but in far



greater abundance; so that we often got in a single day what the more timid of the craft could not scrape together in a week. In fact, we made it a matter of desperate speculation — the risk of life standing instead of labor, and courage answering for capital.

“We kept the smack in a cove |bout five miles higher up the coast than this; and it was our practise, in fine weather, to take advantage of the fifteen minutes’ slack to push across the main channel of the Moskoe-strom, far above the pool, and then drop down upon anchorage somewhere near Otterholm, or Sandflesen, where the eddies are not so violent as elsewhere. Here we used to remain until nearly time for slack water again, when we weighed and made for home. We never set out upon this expedition without a steady side wind for going and coming — one that we felt sure would not fail \is before our return — and we seldom made a miscalculation upon this point. Twice, during six years, we were forced to stay all night at anchor on account of a dead calm, which is a rare thing indeed just about here; and once we had to remain on the grounds nearly a week, starving to death, owing to a gale which blew up shortly after our arrival, and made the channel too boisterous to be thought of. Upon this occasion we should have been driven out to sea in spite of everything (for the whirlpools threw us round and round so violently, that, at length, we fouled our anchor and dragged it), if it had not been that we drifted into one of the innumerable cross currents — ^here today and gone tomorrow — which drove us under the lee of Flimen, where, by good luck, we brought up.

“I could not tell you the twentieth part of the difficulties we encountered ‘on the ground’ — it is a bad spot to be in, even in good weather — ^but we make shift always to run the gauntlet of the Moskoe-strom itself without accident; although at times my heart has

been in my mouth when we happened to be a minute or so behind or before the slack. The wind sometimes was not as strong as we thought it at starting, and then we made rather less way than we could wish, while the current rendered the smack unmanageable. My* eldest brother had a son eighteen years old, and I had two stout boys of my ovTi. These would have been of great assistance at such times, in using the sweeps as well as afterward in fishing — but, somehow, although we ran the risk ourselves, we had not the heart to let the young ones get into the danger — for, after all is said and done, it was a horrible danger, and that is the truth.

“It is now within a few days of three years since what I am going to tell you occurred. It was on the tenth of July, 18 —, a day which the people of this part of the world will never forget — for it was one in which blew the most terrible hurricane that ever came out of the heavens. And yet all the morning and indeed until late in the afternoon, there was a gentle and.steady breeze from the.southwest, while the sun shone brightly, so that the oldest seaman among us could not have foreseen what was to follow.

“The three of us — ^my two brothers and myself — ^had crossed over to the islands about two o’clock p. m., and soon nearly loaded the smack with fine fish, which, we all remarked, were more plenty that day thmi we had ever known them. It was just seven, hy my watch, when we weighed and started for home, so as to make the worst of the Strom at slack water, which we knew would be at eight.

“We set out with a fresh wind on our starboard quarter, and for some time spanked along at a great rate, never dreaming of danger, for indeed we saw not the slightest reason to apprehend it. All at once we were taken aback by a breeze from over Helseggen. This was most unusual — somethmg that had never happened to ua (Continued on page 128)

Can You Guess This Man’s Age?

See if You Can Within 25 Years; The Author Couldn’t; But He Stuck With Hobart Bradstreet Untiji He Revealed His Method of Staying Young

IUSED to pride myself on jessing: people's a&es. That was before I met Hobart Bradstreet, whose age I missed by a quarter'-oeotury. But before I tell you how old he really is, let me say this;

My meeting-up with Bradstreet I count the luckiest day of my life. Eor while we often hoar how our minds and hodieB are about efficient — and at times feel it to be the truth — he knows why. Furthermore, he knows how to overcome it — in five minutes — and he showed me how.

This man offers no such bromides as setting-up exercises, deep-breathing, or any ocf those tilings you know at the outset you’ll nerer do. He uses a principle that is the foundation of all chiropractic, naprapathy, mechano-therapy, and even osteopathy. Only he does not touch a hand to you; it isn’t necessary.

The reader will grant Bradstreet's method of staying young worth knowing and using, when told the secret.

And here is the secret: he keeps hie spine in tri^n. Any man or woman who thinks spine motion doesn’t make a difference rfiould try It! It Is easy enough. Til tell you how. First though, you may be curious to learn why a healthy spine puts one In an entirely new class physically. The spinal column is a series of tiny bones, between which are pads or cushions of cartilage. Nothing in the ordinary activitl^ of us humans stretches the spine. So it “settles” day by day, until those once soft and resilient pads become thin as a safetyrazor blade — and just about as hard. One’s spine (the most wonderfully designed shock-absorber knou*^) is then an unyielding column that transmits every shock straight to the base of the brain.

Do you wonder folks have backaches and headaches? That one's nerves pound toward the end of a hard day? Or that a nervous system may periodically go to pieces? For every nerve in one’s body connects with the spine, which is a sort of central switchboard. When the “insulation," or cartilage, wears-down and flattens-out, the nerves are exposed, or even impinged — and there is trouble on the line.

Now, for proof that sublaxation of the ^>ine causes most of the ills and ailments which spoil “ago” in men or women. Flex your spine — “shake it out” — and they will disappear. You’ll feel the difference in fen minutes. At least, I did. It’s no trick to secure complete spinal iaxatlon as Bi*adstreet does it. But like everything else, one must know how. No amount of violent exercise will do it; not even chopping wood. As for wallcing, or goldng. your spine settles dowm a bit firmer with each step.

Mr. Bradstreet has evolved from his 25-year experience with spinal mechanics a simple, boUeddown formula of just five movements. Neither takes more than one minute, so it means but five minutes a day. But those movements! I never experienced such compound exhilaration before. I wa.s a good subject for the test, for I went into It with a dull headache. At the end of the second movement I thought I could actually feel my blood circulating. The third movement in this remarkable SpINB-MoTION series brought an amazing feeling of exhilaration. One motion seemed to open and shut my backbone like a jack-knife.

I a.«rked about constipation. Ho gave me another motion — a peculiar, writhing and twisting movement — and fifteen minutes later came a complete evacuation!

Hobart Bradstreet frankly gives the full credit of his conspicuous success to tllese simple secrets of Spine-Motion. He has traveled about for years, conditioning those whose means permitted a specialist at their beck and call. I met him at' the Roycroft Inn, at East Aurora, But Bradstreet, young as he looks and feels, thinks he has chased around the

HOBART BRADSTREET, THE MAN WHO DEFIES AQB

country long enough. He has beem prevailed upon to put his Spinb-Motion method in form that makes it now generally available.

I know what these remarkable mechanics of the spine have done for me. I have checked up at least tw’enty-five other casea With all sincerity I believe nothing In the whole realm of medicine or specialism can quicker remake, rejuvenate and restore one. I wish you could see Bradstreet himself. Ho is arrogantly healthy; he doesn’t seem to have any nerves. Yet he puffs incessantly at a black cigar that would floor some men, drinks tw’O cups of coffee at every meal, and I don’t believe he averages seven hours sleep. It Shows what a sound nerve-mechanism will do. He says a man’s power can and should be unabated up to the age of 60, in every sense, and I have had some astonishing testimony on that score.

Would you like to try this remarkable method of “coming back?” Or, if young, and apparently normal in your action and feelings, do you want to see your energies just about doubled? It is easy. No “apparatus” Is required. Just Bradstreet's few, simple instructions, made doubly clear by his photograplUc poses of the five positions. Results pome amazingly quick. In less than a week you should have new health, new ai)petite, new desire, and new capacities: you’ll feel years lifted off mind and body. This man’s method can be tested without risk. If you feel enormously benefited, everything is yours to keep and you have paid for it all the enormous sum of $3.00! Knowing something of the fees this man has }>een accustomed to receiving,! I hope his naming $3.00 to the general public will have full appreciation.

The $.3.00 which pays for everything is not sent in advTUice nor do yon make any payment or deposit on delivery. Requests will be answered in turn. Try how it feels to have a full-length spine, and you’ll honoeforth pity men and women whose nerves are in a vise I

HOBART BRADSTREET, Inc., Suite 6690,

630 S. Wabash Ave., Chicago, 111.

I will try your 8Pitf»*M0Ti0N without rlak if you will provide necessary Instructions. Send evarythiog postpaid, without any charge or obligation, and 1 will try it five days. If 1 find Spine-Motion highly benefeial X can remit just $8 in full payment: otharwlae 1 will return the material and will owe you nothing.

N’amc —



( Continued from page 126 ) before — and I began to feel a little uneasy, without exaetly Icnowing why. We put the boat on the wind, but could make no headway at all for the eddies, and I was upon the point of proposing to return to the anchorage, when, looking astern, we saw the whole horizon covered with a singular copper-colored cloud that rose with the most amazing velocity.

‘‘In the meantime the breeze that had headed us off fell away and we were dead becalmed, drifting about in every direction. This state of things, however, did not last long enough to give us time to think about it. In less than a minute the storm was upon us — ^in less than two the sky was entirely overcast — and what with this and the driving spray, it became suddenly so dark that we could not see each other in the smack.

“Such a hurricane as then blew it is folly to attempt describing. The oldest seaman in Norway never experienced anything like it. We had let our sails go by the run before it cleverly took us; but, at the first puff, both our masts went by the board as if they had been sawed off — the mainmast taking with it my youngest brother, who had lashed himself to it for safety.

“Our boat was the lightest feather of a thing that ever sat upon water. It had a complete flush deck, with only a small hatch near the bow, and this hatch it had always been our custom to batten down when about to cross the Strom, by way of precaution against the chopping seas. But for this circumstance we should have foundered at once — for we lay entirely buried for some moments. How my elder brother escaped destruction I can not.say, for I never had an opportunity of ascertaining. For my part, as soon as I had let the foresail run, I threw myself flat on deck, with my feet against the narrow gunwale of the bow;, and with my hands grasping a ring-bolt near the foot of the foremast. It was mere instinct that prompted me to do this — which was undoubtedly the very best thing I could have done — for I was too much flurried to think.

“For some moments we were completely deluged, as I say, and all this time I held my breath, and clung to the bolt. When I could stand it no longer I raised myself upon my knees, still keeping hold with n^ hands, and thus got my head clear. Presently our little boat gave herself a shake, just as a dog does in coming out of the water, and thus rid herself, in some measure, of the seas. I was now trying to get the better of the stupor that had come over me, and to eoReet my senses so as to see what was to be done, when I felt somebody gi’asp my arm. It was my elder brother, and my heart leaped for joy, for I had made sure that he was overboard — but the next moment all this joy was turned into horror — for he put his mouth close to my ear, and screamed out the word ‘MosJcoestrom!’

“No one will ever know what my feelings were at that moment. I shook from head to foot as if I had had the most violent fit of the ague. I knew what he meant by that one word well enough — I knew what he wished to make me understand. With the wind that now drove us on, we were bound for the whirl of the Strom, and nothing could save us!

“You perceive that in crossing the Sti’om channel, we always went a long way up above the whirl, even in the calmest weather, and then had to wait and watch carefully for the slack — but now we were driving right upon the pool itself, and in such a hurricane as this! ‘ To be sure, ’ I thoiight, ‘we shall get there just about the slack — there is some little hope in that’ — but in the next moment I cursed myself for being so gi*eat a fool as to dream of hope at all. I knew very well that we were doomed, had we been ten times a ninety-gun.ship.



“T>Y THIS time the first fury of the tempest had spent itself, or perhaps. we did hot feel it so much, as we scudded before it, but ut all events the seas, which at first had been kept down by the wind, and lay flat and frothing, now got up into absolute mountains. A singular change, too, had come over the heavens. Around in every direction it was still as black as pitA, but nearly overhead there burst out, all at once, a circular rift of clear sky — ^as clear as I ever saw — and of a deep bright blue — and througli it there blazed forth the full moon with a luster that I never before knew her to wear. She lit up everything about us with the greatest distinctness — ^but, oh God, what a scene it was to light up!

“ I now made one or two attempts to speak to my brother^ — but in some manner which I could not understand, the din had so increased that I could not make him hear a single word, although I screamed at the top of my voice in his ear. Presently he shook his head, looldng as pale as death, and held up one of his fingers, as if to say ‘listen!’

‘ ‘ At firat I could not make out what he meant — but soon a hideous thought flashed upon me. I dragged my -watch from its fob. It was not going. I glanced at its face by the moonlight, and then burst in tears as I flung it far away into the ocean. It had run down at seven o’clock! We were behind the time of the slack, and the whirl of the Strom was in full fury!

“When a boat is well built, properly trimmed, and not deep laden, the waves in a strong gale, w'hen she is going large, seem always to slip from beneath her — which appears strange to a landsman — and this is what is called riding, in sea phrase.

“Well, so far we had ridden the swells very cleverly; but presently a gigantic sea happened to take us right under the counter, and bore us with it as it rose — up — up — as if into the sky.

N umerous legends almost as old as the human race represent that the earth once had two moons. Have you ever heard of the Sect of Two Moons? They were the sorcerers of China and were the greatest scientists this world had ever prochiced. Talk of modern progress — our arts and sciehces, our discoveries and inventions are child’s play beside the accomplishments of this race of Chinese devils. Shut away in that remote interior — in a valley so little heard of that it is almost mythical — beyond trackless deserts and the loftiest mountains on the globe — this terrible sect of sorcerers has been growing in power for thousands of years, storing up.secret energy that some day should inundate the world with horrors such as never had been known.

This novel narrates the sensational attempt of a group of Chinese scientists to obtain rulership of the world by a tremendous threat against the very existence of the earth. The diabolical methods by which they put their scheme into execution, the frantic race across the ocean to circumvent them, the weird and exciting adventures that befell, make one of the most gripping and fascinating novels ever written.


This book is beautifully bound in' inch blue eloth with attractive orangecolored jacket and is for sale direct from the publishers at the special price of $1.50 postpaid.

Remember, this edition is limited and this offer is good only as long as the supply lasts. Send for this fa.scinating book now while it is fresh in your mind.

Weird Tales, Book Dept. >1-31,

840?♦. Uticliijan.Ive., ChicaRo, Illinois.

Enclosed hnd $1.50 for cloth-bound copy of THE MOON TERROR at publishers’ price.

Name

Address —

City State



I would not have believed that any wave could rise so high. And then down we came with a sweep, a slide, and a plunge that made me feel sick and dizzy, as if I was falling from some lofty mountain-top in a dream. But while we were up I had thrown a quick glance around — and that one glance was all-sufficient. I saw our exact position in an instant. The Moskoe-strom whirlpool was about a quarter of a mile dead ahead — but no more like the everyday Moskoe-strom than the whirl, as you now see it, is like a mill-race. If I had not known where we were, and what we had to expect, I should not have recognized the place at all. As it was, I involuntarily closed my eyes in horror. The lids clenched themselves together as if in a spasm.

‘ ‘ It could not have been more than two minutes afterwards until we suddenly felt the waves subside, and were enveloped in foam. The boat made a sharp half-turn to larboard, and then shot off in its new direction like a thunderbolt. At the same moment the roaring noise of the water was completely drowned in a kind of shrill shriek — such a sound as you might imagine given out by the water-pipes of many thousand steam-vessels letting off their steam all together. We were now in the belt of surf that always surrounds the whirl; and I thought, of course, that another moment would plunge us into the abyss, down which we could only see indistinctly on account of the amazing velocity with which we were borne along. The boat did not seem to sink into the water at all, but to skim like an air-bubble upon the surface of the sui^e. Her starboard side was next the whirl, and on the larboard arose the world of ocean we had left. It stood like a huge writhing wall between us and the horizon.

“It may appear strange, but now, when we were in the very jaws of the gulf, I felt more composed than when

we were only approaching it. Having made up my mind to hope no more, I got rid of a great deal of that terror which unmanned me at first. I supposed it was despair that strung my nerves.

“It may look like boasting — but what I tell you is truth — I began to reflect how magnificent a thing it was to die in such a manner, and how foolish it was in me to think of so paltry a consideration as my own individual life, in view of so wonderful a manifestation of God’s power. I do believe that I blushed with shame when this idea crossed my mind. After a little while I became possessed with the keenest curiosity about the whirl itself. I positively felt a U'zsk to explore its depths, even at the sacrifice I was going to make; and my principal grief was that I should never be able to tell my old companions on shore about the mysteries I should see. These, no doubt, were singular fancies to occupy a man’s mind in such extremity — and I have often thought since, that the revolutions of the boat around the pool might have rendered me a little light-headed.

“There was another circumstance which tended to restore my self-possession; and this was the cessation of the wind, which could not reach us in our present situation — for, as you saw for yourself, the belt of the surf is considerably lower than the general bed of the ocean, and this latter now towered above us, a high, black mountainous ridge. If you have never been at sea in a heavy gale, you can fom no idea of the confusion of mind occasioned by the wind and spray together. They blind, deafen, and strangle you, and take away all power of action or reflection. But we were now, in a gi’eat measure, rid of these annoyances — ^just as dea^-condemned felons in prison are allowed i^etty indulgences, forbidden them while their doom is yet uncertain.



“ TTow often we made the circuit of •*^the belt it is impos^ble to say. We careered round and round for perhaps an hour, flying rather than floating, getting gradually more and more into the middle of the surge, and then nearer and nearer to its horrible inner edge. All this time I had never let go of the ring-bolt. My brother was at the stern, holding on to a small empty water-cask which had been securely lashed under the coop of the counter, and was the only thing on deek that had not been swept overboard when the gale first took us. As we approached the brink of the pit he let go his hold upon this, and made for the ring, from which, in the agony of his terror, he endeavored to force my hands, as it was not large enough to afford us both a secure grasp. I never felt deeper grief than when I saw him attempt this act — although I knew he was a madman when, he did it — a raving maniac through sheer fright. I did not care, however, to contest the point with him. I knew it could make no difference whether either of us held on at all; so I let him have the bolt, and went astern to the cask. This there was no great difficulty in doing; for the- smack flew round steadily enough, and upon an even keel — only swaying to and fro with the immense sweeps and swelters of the whirl. Scarcely had I secured myself in my new position, when we gave a wild lurch to starboard, and rushed headlong into the abyss, I muttered a hurried prayer to God, and thought all was over.

“As I felt the sickening sweep of the descent, I had instinctively tightened my hold upon the barrel, and closed my eyes. For some seconds I dared not open them — ^while I expected instant destruction, and wondered that I was not already in my deathstruggles with the water. But moment after moment elapsed. I still lived. The sense of falling had ceased; and the motion of the vessel seemed

Don’t

Do

That

NOW

REMEMBER! Select THE RIGHT TIMEIf You Wish Success

Tour plan for health, money, business, or what-not must be performed on sohodule, to be successful. Actions that bring results are done during certain periods, not haphazardly. Where one person miserably fails, you may gloriously succeed.

At last a SIMPLE, FASCINATING, and HIGHLY SCIENTIFIC SYSTEM has been introduced in America which shows every man and woman how he may choose the fortunate periods to do certain things. You may lay out the periods of your life like the movements on a checker board. One of the important features of this system is the fact that one does not have to Imow higher mathematics, nor longitude and latitude: neither does it require weeks of study nor complicated charts.

WRITE FOR THE FREE FOLDER DESCRIBING THIS SYSTEM TODAY. Learn what POSSIBILITIES AWAIT YOU TOMORROW: Addi-ess:


Dept. 3

SAN JOSE, CALIF.

A Fight Against Rupture


vs,

NEGLECT

Evoryone should realize the seriousness of Rupture, even where the protrusion is small. The Brooks AppUance Is the finest kind of mechanical support for reducible rupture that it is possible to build. Hard pads and stiff springs are entirely eliminated. Our Automatic Air Cushion, light, cool and absolutely fianitary, is protected by patents In the United States and aU important foreign countries.

Your name and address pinned to this advertisement will bring complete details of our free trial plan in plain sealed envelope. No need to write a letter.

BROOKS aPn.lANCE CO., 94 Slate St.. MARSHALt, MICH.

POK 1936 NTWBROI.QOICAL FORECAST SEND 20c and birth date. Martha Sanchez, 820 Howard, Delroit, Mlchlgran. Detailed forecast $1.00.



much as it had been before, while in the belt of foam, with the exception that she now lay more along. I took courage and looked once again upon the scene.

“Never shall I forget the sensation of awe, horror, and admiration with which I gazed about me. The boat appeared to be hanging, as if by magic, midway down, upon the interior surface of a funnel vast in circumference, prodigious in depth, and whose perfectly smooth sides might have been mistaken for ebony, but for the bewildering rapidity with which they spun around, and for the gleaming and ghastly radiance they shot forth, as the rays of the full moon, from that circular rift amid the clouds which I have already described, streamed in a flood of golden glorj^ along the black walls, and far away down into the inmost recesses of the abyss.

“At first I was too much confused' to observe anything accurately. The general burst of terrific grandeur was all that I beheld. When I recovered myself a little, however, my gaze fell instinctively downward. In this direction I was able to obtain an unobstructed view, from the manner in which the smack hung on the inclined surface of the pool. She was quite upon an even keel — that is to say, her deck lay in a plane parallel with that of the water — ^but this latter sloped at an angle of more than forty-five degrees, so that we seemed to be lying upon our beam-ends. I could not help observing, nevertheless, that I had scarcely more difficulty in maintaining my hold and footing in this situation, than if we had been upon a dead level; and this, I suppose, was owing to the speed at which we revolved.

“The rays of the moon seemed to search the very bottom of the profound gulf; but still I could make out nothing distinctly on account of a thick mist in which everything there was enveloped, and over which there

himg a magnificent rainbow, like that narrow and tottering bridge which Mussulmans say is the only pathway between Time and Eternity. This mist, or spray, was no doubt occasioned by the clashing of the great walls of the funnel, as they all met together at the bottom — but the yell that went up to the heavens from out of that mist I dare not attempt to describe.

“Our first slide into the abyss itself, from the belt of foam, had carried us to a great distance down the slope; but our further descent was by no means proportionate. Round and mund we swept — ^not "with any uniform movement — ^but in dizzying.s-wdngs and jerks, that sent us sometimes only a few hundred yards — sometimes nearly the complete circuit of the whirl. 0ur progress do-wnward, at each revolution, was slow, but very perceptible.

“Looking about me upon the 'wide waste of liquid ebony on which we were thus home, I perceived that our boat was not the only object in the embrace of the whirl. Both above and below us were -visible fragments of vessels, large masses of building-timber and trunks of trees, -with many smaller articles, such as pieces of house furniture, broken boxes, barrels and staves. I have already described the unnatural curiosity which had taken the place of my original terrors. It appeared to grow upon me as I drew nearer and nearer to my dreadful doom. I now began to watch, -with a strange interest, the numerous things that floated in our company. I must have been delirious, for I even sought amusement in speculating upon the relative velocities of their several descents toward the foam below. ‘This fir-tree,’ I found myself at one time saying, '‘-will certainly be the next thing that takes the awful plunge and disappears, ’ — and then I was disappointed to find that the wreck of a Dutch merchant ship overtook it and went down before. At length, after



making several guesses of this nature, and being deceived in all — ^this fact — the fact of my invariable miscalculation — set me upon a train of reflection that made my limbs again tremble, and my heart beat heavily once more.

“It was not a new terror that thus affected me, but the dawn of a more exciting hope. This hope arose partly from memory, and partly from present observation. I called to mind the great variety of buoyant matter that strewed the coast of Lofoden, having been absorbed and then thrown forth by the Moskoe-strom. By far the greater number of the articles were shattered in the mast extraordinary way — so chafed and roughened as to have the appearance of being stuck full of splinters — but then I distinctly recollected that there were some of them which Avere not disfigured at all. Now I could not account for this difference except by supp>osing that the roughened fragments were the only ones which had been completely absorbed — ^that the others had entered the whirl at so late a period of the tide, or, from some reason, had descended so slowly after entering, that they did not reach the bottom l^fore the turn of the flood came, or the ebb, as the case might be. I conceived it possible, in either instance, that they might thus be whirled up again to the level of the ocean, without undergoing the fate of those which had been drawn in more early or absorbed more rapidly. I made, also, three important observations. The first was, that as a general rule, the larger the bodies were, the more rapid their descent — the second, that, between two masses of equal extent, the one spherical, and the other of any other shape, the superiority in speed of descent was with the sphere — ^the third, that, between two masses of equal size, the one cylindrical and the other of any other shape, the cylinder was absorbed the more slowly. Since my escape, I have had several conversations on this subject with an old schoolmaster of the

AT home/

r i* YOtTRB esrnfnff a cent leva than $60 a week, send te my Free Aato Book, See bow sroa can get,tfomplete iostructloa at home, roverinsr CTeir branch of Auto work. jCeam how yon can prepare for the big cmportanit tea jobs paying op to m,000 a year. CUp eoopon for foil partiemarsi.

[Earn up to $100 a Week

I Whether yoo'ca an experienced i \ anto man or not^it yaa've just ihad common schooling, find out labeot this new essy,_practical."Jc^Way” Training, l^adbow my employment department L helps yon get the g<^ jobs.

\ Lenm bow yon can midce nal ^ money in spare time withont g op yoor present posl' tioa. all these facto by ' Bply mailing eoopoo—now.

AVIATION COURSE also included FREE of

Extra Charge

W. COOKE>

f>ir T i lnffl KMdfiewr MOTOR INSTITUTE of Amerfca MoterlmtftateBMg.rDept* 3721 Kvensfen, fil.

. Send at eoee, TOOT F&BB Book

ton iMrUeoion of 'Vob-We?'* Trataiag. and AVIATIOM COUBSa Offor. No obUgntioa.eo mr pert.

AddroM..

..O iMupat i o n.

Do you want to be

AHRACTIVE?

If so, we can help you.

Send name and address at once for free literature.


Dept. O, Box 1525, Los Angeles, Cal.

^^BOOKIO^

Kxplalng many mystlfyinis tricks with coins, cards, handkerchiefs, etc., yon ran do. Also contains complete catalog of Magic Tricks. Jokes, Puzzles, Escapes, Curios, and Imported Novelties from many Foreign lands. Large assortment, lowest prices. You will amaze and mystify your friends I Send 10c today,

LYLE DOUGLAS,

Slatton A*6 Dallas, Taxas


yon that I will teach yon, by mail In one lesson, tha simplest, shortest, method. Not telepathy. You can road one's mind to a dot by only looking In the eyes of partner, ohum, sweetheart, etc. Praised by New York, Boston, Montreal Police Chiefs, colleges, Thurston, Blackstone, etc. If fake, lot them arrest me. Rend in all $1.00.

A. Honifmaii, Sta. E. P. 0. B. 85. Sec. WT-10, Montreal. Can.



district; and it was from him that I learned the use of the words ‘cylinder’ and ‘sphere.’ He explained to me — although I have forgotten the explanation— how what I observed was, in fact, the natural consequence of the forms of the floating fragments — and showed me how it happened that a cylinder, swimming in a vortex, offered more resistance to its suction, and was drawn in with greater difficulty than an equally bulky body, of any form whatever.*

“There was one startling circumstance which went a great way in enforcing these observations, and rendering me anxious to turn them to account, and this was that, at every revolution, we passed something like a barrel, or else the yard or the mast of a vessel, while many of these things, which had been on our level when I first opened my eyes upon the wonders of the whirlpool, were now high up above us, and seemed to have moved but little from their original station.

“I no longer hesitated what to do. I rasolved to lash myself securely to the water-cask upon which I now held, to cut it loose from the counter, and to throw myself with it into the water. I attracted my brother’s attention by signs, pointed to the floating barrels that came near us, and did eveiything in my power to make him understand what I was about to do. I thought at length that he comprehended my design — ^but, whether this was the ease or not, he shook his head despairingly, and refused to move from his station by the ring-bolt. It was impossible to reach him; the emergency admitted of no delay; and so, with a bitter struggle, I resigned him to his fate, fastened myself to the cask by means of the lashings which secured it to the counter, and precipitated myself with it into the sea, ^thout another moment’s hesitation.

♦See Archimedes, “De Inddentibm in FluiM’ —lib. 2.

“npHE result was precisely what I had hoped it might be. As it is myself who now tell you this tale — as you see that I did escape — and as you are already in possession of the mode in which this escape was effected, and must therefore anticipate all that I have further to say — ^yill bring my story quickly to conclusion. It might have been an hour, or thereabouts, after my quitting the smack, when, having d^cended to a vast distance beneath me, it made three or four wild ^rations in rapid succession, and, pearing my loved brother with it, plunged headlong, at once and forever, into the chaos of foam below. The barrel to which I was attached sunk veiy little farther than half the distance between the bottom of the gulf and the spot at which I leaped overboard before a great change took place in the character of the whirlpool. The slope of the sides of the vast funnel became momentarily less and less steep. The gyrations oi the whirl grew, gradually, less and less violent. By degrees, the froth and the rainbow disappeared, and the bottom of the gulf seemed slowly to uprise. The sky was clear, the winds had gone down, and the full moon was setting radiantly in the west, when I foimd myself on the sm*face of the ocean, in fuU view of the shores of Lofoden, and above the spot where the pool of the Moskoe-strom had been. It was the hour of the slack— but the sea still heaved in mountainous waves from the effects of the hurricane. I was borne violently into the channel of the Strom, and in a few minutes was hurried down the coast into the ‘grounds’ of the fishermen. A boat picked me up — exhausted from fatigue — and (now that the danger was removed) speechless from the memory of its horror. Those who di’ew me on board were my old mates and daily companions — but they knew me no more than they would have known a travel^ from the spirit-land. My hair, which had been raven black the day before,



was as white as you see it now. They say too that the whole expression of my countenance had changed. I told them my story — they did not believe it. I now tell it to you — and I can scarcely expect you to put more faith in it than did the merry fishermen of Lofoden.”

Ougabalys

By


In billow-lost Poseidonis,

I was the god Ougabalys:

My three horns were of similor Above my double diadem,

My one eye was a moon-wan gem Found in a monstrous meteor.

Incredible far peoples came,

Called by the thunders of my fame. And fleetly passed my terraced throne.

Where titan pards and lions stood.

As pours a never-lapsing flood Before the wind of winter blown.

Before me, many a chorister Made offering of alien myrrh.

And copper-bearded sailors brought. From isles of ever-foaming seas. Enormous lumps of ambergris And corals intricately wrought.

Below my glooming architraves.

One brown eternal file of slaves Came in from mines of chalcedon. And camels from the long plateaux. Laid down their sard and peridoz. Their incense and their cinnamon.

But now, within my sunken walls. The slow blind ocean-serpent crawls. And sea- worms are my ministers; And wondering fishes pass me now.

Or press before mine eyeless brow As once the thronging worshipers.

PVEAI^S from TODAY

We travel with Loto, the man who conquers time, as the Wright Brothers conquered the air — to a land that lives long after oiu: own civilization has died — to meet Azeele and Diaimo — to attend the sensuous Flower Festival — and to return, but not alone, in this scientific yarn.

an Who asteied.Time

By Ray Cummings

• * • * •

Mall t2 to WEIRD TAI.E3. Book Dept. C-1 840 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago, and this book will be mailed to you postpaid.

For half a minute that wail rent the night — its undulating sound breaking into horror-laden notes, abounding in inhuman torment.

Who or what is this weird song that haunts the King of Wall Street? The answer is in “The Phantom in the Rainbow.” *****

Mail $2 to WEIRD TALES, Book Dept. L-1, 840 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago, and this book will be mailed to you postpaid.



The Curse of the House of Phipps

(Continued from page 29)

wise at the same time. With a scraping, rasping sound the slab came away from its anchorage, tilted obliquely a moment, then rolled back.

Before us lay a stone-sided crypt some two and a half feet deep by four feet wide, moi*e than six feet long, floored with a second slab of slate like that we had just wrenched loose. What I expected to see inside I do not know. Certainly, I was unprepared for the sight which met my eyes.

Calm as though she had lain down to sleep an hour before, lay a girl, young, slim, delicate. Prom the tip of her head to the soles of her heavy brogans with their wide brass buckles she was as carefully arrayed as though clad to attend a meeting of the towsfolk of old Woolwich. True, her wrists were bound with a twist of knotted rawhide, but the fingers of her hands lay placidly together as though folded in prayer, and on her fresh, girlish features was a look of peace and calm such as few who die “naturally” in their beds are privileged to wear. Too, the preservation of her body was well-nigh perfect; time and death alike appeared to have passed her by, or paused reluctant in their work of destruction at sight of her frail beauty.

But what amazed me more than anything was the startling resemblance the dead girl bore to Marguerite DuPont of Twentieth Century Woolwich, Marguerite DuPont who even now stepped timidly forward to gaze upon the features which had lain beneath the stone of sacrifice for upward of two hundred years.

“A-a-ah!” de Grandin let his breath out slowly between his teeth. “She died horribly, this poor one, but peace was hers at last, it seems. Now,

Friend Pasteur, the time had come for you to ”

Something — a wisp of vapor generated by the burning of the house and confined in a cranny of the hearth-grave, perhaps — wafted upward from the martyred French girl’s tomb, floated lightly a moment in the chill midwinter air, and seemed to settle like a cloud upon the shoulders of young Edwin Phipps. Next instant he had fallen to the pavement, clawing at his neck with impotent hands, making uncouth, gurgling noises in his throat. Already, at the comers of his lips, appeared twin tiny stains of blood, as though a vessel in his throat had ruptured.

“No — no; you shall not have him! He’s mine; mine, I tell you! ” The cry seemed wrung from Marguerite DuPont, who, fallen to her Imees beside the struggling man, fought frantically to drive the hovering vapor off, beating at it as if it were a swarm of summer gnats.

“To prayers. Friend Priest! Pour V amour d’un canard, proceed quickly!” de Grandin cried. “You, too, mes braves! Attend your duties!” He waved imperatively at the undertaker and his assistants.

“Enter not into judgment with Thy servant, 0 Lord; for in Thy sight shall no man be justified, unless

through Thee he find pardon ”

the priest intoned.

Quickly, but gently, the undertaker’s men lifted the calm cold body from beneath the hearthstone, placed it with practised hands in the waiting casket, and closed the lid.

Astonishingly, like steam dissolving in the cold morning air, the baleful white cloud surrounding yoxing Phipps’s head began to vanish. In a


137 '

moment it had disappeared and he lay panting, Ms head pillowed in the crook of Marguerite’s uninjured arm, her little handkerchief mping away the tiny gouts of blood from his lips.

Father Rizzio followed the casket.

‘ ‘ Eternal rest grant unto her, O Lord, and let perpetual light sMne upon her he murmured.

The little Frenchman began to laugh. Sharply his chuckle sounded in contrast to the devotional chant of the clergyman who now stood beside the hearse in which the mortician and his men disposed the casket preparator>' to the journey to the graveyard.

‘‘Barbe d’un hotic, my friends, it is too droll! ” he cried, pausing to wipe liis eyes, then giving himself up once more to unbridled merriment. “Me, I know all; I have made much inquiry of late, yet never did I foresee that which has transpired. Jules de Grandin, the very good jest is on you!” And once again he laughed until I thought Ms sides would surely break.

“Observe them. Friend Trowbridge, ’ ’ he ordered, nodding delightedly to Edwin PMpps and Marguerite. “Is it not an excellent-good joke? ’ ’

I looked at him in wonder. Young Phipps was recovering quickly under the girl’s ministrations, and as he opened his eyes and muwnured sometliing she bent quickly and kissed him on the mouth.

“What’s funny about that?” I queried almost angrily.

‘ ‘ Forgive my unseemly merriment, ’ ’ he begged as we set out for the cemetery to witness the interment of poor Marguerite DuPont’s body, “but as I said before, I knew much which is withheld from you, and might easily have seen that which has happened had I not been one great muttonhead. Attend me, if you please:

“You wonder that Mademoiselle Marguerite resembles her whom we have but a moment ago raised from her unConsecrated grave? Pardieu,

lamited

Autogrrapbed

Urst

Edition

By Otis Adelbert Kline

Haveyou ever seen a Grampite — or a hahoe? Have you ever imagined the fearful, wonderful adventures that might lie before the bold man who sought to conquer an Amazon Queen on the Planet Venus? You’ll find a weird, new world of strange fights and thrills as your imagination soars to astonishing heights in this new tale of life millions of jmiles away.

Mall $2 to WEIRD TALES, Book Dept. K-4, 840 N. Michigan Avo., Chicago, and this book will be mailed to you postpaid.

He Stopped Whiskey!

Wonderful Treatment Helped Faithful Wife to Save Husband When All Else Failed

The Happy Reunion

Try it FREE

Wives, mothers, sisters, It Is you that the man who drinks Whiskey, Wine or Boer to excess mu.st depend upon to save him from a ruined life and a drunkard's grave. Take heed from the thousands of men going to ruin daily through vile bootlegger's Whiskey, and v -e horrible stuff called homo brew from private sUUs.

Once he gets it In his system he can't stop— but you can save him. What it has done for others is an example of what it should do for you. All you have to do is to send your, name ami address and tvo will send absolutely FRKE, in plain wrapper, a trial package of GOLDEN TREATMENT, You will be thanlfful as long as you live that you did It. Address


3431 Glenn Building Cincinnati, Ohio

INVENTIONS WANTED — PATENTED, tlNpatented. If you have an idea for sale, writ® Hartley, Box 928, Bangor, Maine.



’twould be strange if it were otherwise. The one is great-great-granddaughter to the other, no less! Consider: When first the j^oung Monsieur advised us of this so mysterious fate which overtook his ancestors, I was greatly interested. If, as old Monsieur Obediah recounts in his diary, the poor one, Marguerite DuPont, lay buried beneath &e wicked hearthstone of that evil house, I greatly favored the idea that the memory of an ancient grudge — resentment which held fast like death — was focused there, for where the misused body lay, I thou^t, there, in aU probability, would be found the well-spring of the malediction which has pursued the Phippses. Therefore, I told me, we must go there, untomb the poor, murdered body of the unfortunate woman, and give it Christian burial. A fervent Catholic she had lived; such, presumably, she had died, though there was no priest to shrive her soul or commit her body to a restful grave. These omissions, they must be remedied, I told me, and then, perhaps, she should have peace, and the bane of her old curse might be loosened.

“Very well, to this so execrable old house we did repair, and on that very night comes Mademoiselle Marguerite the second, praying shelter from the storm and from the miscreants who had wounded her.

“Anon, comes that Monsieur Claude, intent on frightening us from out the house, but I am not deceived, and shoot him through the lungs. He dies, and in the same hour his son is bom. Thus by accident or deliberate design of the malignant dead, the family curse is once more fulfilled. Yes,

“What I did not then know, however, was that the lady we have rescued was a lineal descendant of that Marguerite DuPont whose body lay almost beneath our feet at the moment. Remember how it are recorded that she bore a son to wicked old Monsieur Joshua? The son asstuned his mother’s name, since craven cowardice had caused his father to disown him. It is always so, when women love with greater strength than wisdom, my friends.

“ At first the scandal of his birth hung on him like a dirty cloak, but those were stirring times, the freedom of a people trembled in the balance, and men were measured more by deeds than by paternity. Prom out the crucible of war Jonathan DuPont emerged with glory, and became a leading citizen of the township which had cast verbal stones — if nothing worse — upon his poor, dead mother. His progeny retained his virtues, and the family which he founded now ranks with that from which he sprang. DuPont is now an honored name in Woolwich.

“This much i learned by much discreet inquiry; what I could not know, because my eyes were everywhere but where they should have been, was that the hatred of the ancestors offered no bar to the love of their descendants. Parhleu, that Monsieur Cupid, he shoots his arrows where he pleases, and none may say him nay!

“Today, when the last gasp of dying hatred would liave overwhelmed Friend Edwin, Mademoiselle Marguerite does battle with her ancestress for the life of him she loves, and — grace « Dieu — it did appear that love is lord of hate, and the victory was hers. I am very glad.”

TT AJLF an hour ago de Hrandin and I returned from the pretty home Edwin and Marguerite Phipps have built in Harrisonville. This afternoon their first-bom son, Edwin de Grandin Phipps, was christened with aU the ceremony ordained by the Book of Common Prayer. There was much to eat, and more to drink attendant on the function, and I regret to state that my little friend returned in a conditi(m far removed from that apWEIRD TALES


proved by the ladies of the W. C. T.

U.

Seated on his bed, one patent leather shoe removed, he gazed with philosophical concentration at the mauvesilk sock thus exposed. “Friend Trowbridge,” he declared at length, “I wish Monsieur and Madame Phipps as many progeny as the Grand TuA boasts. I hope they are all christened in due and ancient form; I sincerely hope they have as much liquid refreshment at future christenings as at this afternoon’s so delightful service.” A moment he paused, struggling manfully with the other shoe; then, as the footgear came away in response to a tremendous tug, he added:

“And may Jules de Grandin be there to drink it!”

“The Orums of OambaJlab,’’ a powerful, vivid voodoo stoi-y of Jules de Grandin, will appear soon. Watch for it in Weird Talm.

The Bird -People

(Continued from page 48)

who might have been one of our own people so far as his physical appearance went, except that he wore a garment which greatly resembled the skin of a lion, across one shoulder, and girded around his waist. Both men were armed with the double funnelshaped contrivances and lethal tubes.

It was not xmtil both men had dashed to the center of the arena and stood facing each other at a distance of about fifty feet tlrnt I realized that they were to be opponents in a duel to the death.

“Crest of my grandfather!” exclaimed Katodar Se, who was perched on my right, “if it be not the mechanic who so nearly caused our death! ’ ’

“But who is the other?” I asked. “The one with the skin about him?”

“A captured warrior of GulvaWhat our diildren will do 28,- 000 years from today we cans only imagine — but here’s an.' adventurous tale about it by a ^ scientific mind that can give us an idea of what may be expected — in warfare — in government — and in the love of Azeele and Dianne. Make this 28,000 year trip today in ‘GThe Man Who Mastered Time”

Mall $2 to WEIRD TALES, Book Dept. C-1 840 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago, and this book will be mailed to you postpaid.

¥/3u

ffxSVz

FT?

Prices

{♦JiJon Standard

BtC REDUCTIONS

OD U. 8. Go)»drlch, atMi« ftnd other tires only •ngrntly used— due to owners cbansiatr to balloons. Thoueande of MtUnedetiS' tomers report tremendooa mileage.

SEND ONLY •l.OO

deposit for each tire wanted—baU

S ceC. O. D. State wb^er diner or etrslirtit aide. Mo risk in buyioE from us. If not satisfactory Qpon deliTery. return them to ua for refund. ORDER MOW.

AMCIMCAN TIM CO. 1329 S* MichijERa BoulovRrd, DOfK. •39-A» Cliicoeo

30x3% 31x4 32x4 33x4 32x4% 33x4% 34x4% 30xS 33x5 29x4.40 30x6.26 30x6.77 31x6.26 33x6.00 32x6.20 Other Balfoon

Tiae*

nwEs

82.28

Jl.OO

3.00

1.16

3.00

1.16

3.00

1.15

3.25

1.45

3.25

1.45

3.60

1.45

3.65

1.75

3.65

1.75

2.35

1.10

3.00

1.35

3.25

1.40

3.26

1.35

3.25

1.45

3.26

1.45

SixeTIrea $3.00

ASTROLOGY— LEARN WHAT THE STABS predict for 1930. Will you be lucky? Will you win In love? Will your investments prove profitable? Would a change in occupation give j’ou a larger salary? Our Special 16-Page Astrological Reading gives predictions — month by month — with exact days, dates and happenings for 1930 based on your Sign of the Zodiac. Consult it before making any change In home or business affairs, signing papers, love, courtship, marriage, employment, travel, speculation, health, accidents, “lucky days," etc. Send exact birthdate with tl.OO for complete reading. Franklin Publishing Company, 800 North Clark Street, Dept. 327. Chicago.

SONG POEM WRITERS— “REAL” PROPOSltlon. Hlbbeler, D-166. 2104 N. Keystone.

Chicago.



sora,’' he replied. “If he succeeds in hosting ten of our felons who have been condemned to the games, he will be permitted to live in peace among us.”

“But not given his freedom?”

“Perhaps, when his country ceases to war with oui’s. ’ ’

At the sound of a gong, the two combatants suddenly went into action. Because of my previous obseiwation of the work of these lethal tubes, I expected the contest to be over in an instant. But I was mistaken. I had never seen the funnel-like devices used before. Now they were brought into pla}% being held in the left hand so that the funnel on one end was in front of the fighter while that on the other projected back from beneath the left arm. Both fighters crouched low behind their funnels, manipulating their deadly tubes with no apparent effect on each other^ and hopping or darting this way and that as if sparring for openings.

Suddenly the bird-man sprang toward his opponent, apparently bent on dispatching him at close quarters, but he had made a fatal mistake of some sort, for he disappeared m midair.

While the white victor awaited his next opponent, I plied Katodar Se with questions regarding the weapons, and he explained their use.

“All matter,” he said, “is but a mode of motion. Dense matter is a group of slow motions, while lighter matter is an agglomerate of swifter motions. The tithes are nothing more than matter energizers which, when properly pointed and focused, increase the atomic and proton-electronic motion of matter so rapidly that its density is reduced to nothing at all, or at least to nothing of which we are able to take cognizance, which amounts to the same thing. The defensive instruments are built to attract and capture the rays from the tubes, which, being thus intercepted, form a flux through them, similar to

a magnetic flux through a bar of iron. During the process, however, they are slowed down by resistance until, before emerging at the other end, thfey are rendered quite harmless.”

The white warrior fell before his next opponent, and others were brought on the field to duel with the same type of weapons. It appeared, however, that these duels were merely preliminaries to whet the appetites of the people for the more bloody and primitive battles that followed. Men fought with clubs, stones, axes, swords, and bows and arrows quite similar to those used in Europe in early days. The lethal tubes were used, however, to clear the arena of corpses and gore at the end of each fight by the simple process of dissolving them to nothingness.

Then horrible, grotesque, man-killing ereatures were brought on the scene. The first, a huge feathered snake at least forty feet in length, crawled into the arena amid cries of delight from the onlookers. A white man of the enemy nation of Gulvasora, although armed with a sword and a brave fighter, was seized and swallowed after a short skirmish. After swallowing a second white sw'Ordsman the snake grew sluggish, and was dragged away with a large cable attached behind its jaws.

Niunerous other queer creatures, most of them apparently half bird, half reptile, slew or were slain in their turn. Then the booming of the gong silenced the crowd, and a crier stood forth to announce the final event.

“People of Axtosora,” he said, “our mighty ruler has prepared a most pleasant surpinze for you. Today you have seen a hundi’ed of our hated enemies do battle in the arena. Our raiding expeditions have been victorious and a thousand more lie in our prisons to pleasure you on other fete days. But this is not all. You shall now see how the mightiest scientist 5n Alsitar takes vengeance on TenWEIRD TALES


san De, ruler of the hated Gulvasorians/’

At the eonelusion of this amiouncement the gongs boomed once more. Then a dozen men entered the arena, bearing on their shoulders a closed litter or palanquin. While the population twittered with curiosity they marched to the center of the arena and lowered the litter to the ground. One of the bearers then opened a door in the side, reached within, and dragged out a young woman. He piilled her roughly forward by the wrist, but she jerked from his grasp and stood with chin erect, proud defiance mingled with disdain in the look which she returned to the grinning Vaugar De. At sight of her a medley of deafening cries came from the onlookers.

One of the litter-bearers cast a sword at her feet, but she paid no attention to it. Then the twelve bird-men took up the palanquin and withdrew from the arena.

The girl — she could not have been more than eighteen — was the most beautiful I have ever beheld in that world or this. Her golden ringlets were circled by a chain of white metal, studded with jewels, and in which a great gleaming emerald glittered above the center of her forehead. A black and yellow garment, apparently made from the skins of leopards, covered her slim body from breasts to thighs, leaving shoulders, arms and legs bare. On her feet were sandals bound with light thongs.

“Who is she?” I asked, turning to my instructor.

“She is Rosan, daughter of Tensan De of Gulvasora,” replied Katodar Se. “Great will be the vengeance of Vangar De, and great the sorrowing of his enemies. ’ ’

While he was speaking therer came a murmur from the other end of the stadium, and looking, I saw a huge bird stalk into the arena. It was three times as tall as any ostrich I have ever seen, and of a much more stoe^

What was the weird cry that made Gloria tremble? What phantom sought to lead the supposed Van hlortimer, king of Wall Street, to a weird coffin?

A mystep^ story that defies imagination in its unusual treat of being truly unusual

*****

Mall $2 to WEIKD TALES, Book Dept. L-1, 840 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago, and this book will be mailed to yon postpaid.


A Brotherhood of Mystics

TEACHING

Occultism, Psychology, Ancient Magic,

Metaphysics and Comparative Religions.

For information address

SECRETARY GENERAL,

Box 391, Plattsbnrg, N. T.

YOU MEN WHO LACK VIGOR TRY THIS TEST AT Ol® RITK!

777 FORMULA

Composed of ACTUAL GLAND MATERIALS and stimnladve tonic in tablet form. Send $2 for a full strength package.

MsoMi Satltfaclioa GDADMTEEO tr lia ey Rofmilat— Ten Tate le Kak.

2 Packages for $3.00 — also C. O.-D.

CERES GO., Dept. WT-9 830 Rrch St., Philadelphia, Pa,

r

Snupp habit!

il UPAVVUCURED OR No PAY!

■ Any flnm dgais, dgaiettes, snuff pipe, chevring. Full treatment ■ _ on trial. Hsrmle^ Coete $1.50 if cured, nothing if it failn. Over S

■ 600,000 treatmente used. SUPER8A CO. kt- 17, Beltlmore, Md. ■

LKT MB READ YOUR CHARACTER FBObl your hand-writing. Sample reading 12c. Graphologist, 2309-JO Lawrence, Toledo, O.



build. Its wings and body were covered with feathers^ mottled black and brown, but its great blue scrawny neck and head were naked and wrinkled like those of a vulture. The huge, curved beak, at least two feet in length, was also vulture-like in appearknee, and the scaly legs terminated in feet aimed with foimidablelooking talons.

“The man-eating gor!” exclaimed Katodar Se. “She will never escape alive. ’ ’

T he hideous creature had only stalked forward a few steps when it espied its victim in the center of the arena. Then it spread its wings outward, extended its ugly head, and ran straight for the girl. Scarcely realizing what I did, I leaped over the railing and alighted sprawling on the sand twenty feet below. Then I whipped out both forty-fives and sprinted forvmrd, calling to the girl in the language I had just been at such pains to learn.

The bird, however, was too swift for me — swifter, I am convinced, than anything that ever ran upon our earth. Before it reached the girl she stooped and picked up the sword, then crouched, awaiting the attack. The thmg had evidently been pricked with swords before, as it showed considerable wariness, circling swiftly around the girl. Suddenly it lunged out with its huge curved beak, seized the blade of the weapon, and tore it from her grasp. I was then within range, but dared not fire for fear of hitting the girl, who was between me and her attacker.

Again I called to her, and this time she heard me, for she immediately turned and ran in my direction. For a moment the bird shook the sword, apparently trying to crunch it in its be^. Then the blade snapped, and the horrid monster, dropping the pieces, leaped forward once more in pursuit of its victim.

I fired as the exhausted girl fell at my feet, but with no perceptible effect on her assailant. Then, with that huge body as a target, I emptied both weapons. To my horror, the thing.still advanced!

It was nearly upon us when it faltered, its scaly legs sagging as if under a tremendous weight. There was not time to reload, so I caught up the exhausted girl just as that ugly, gaping beak reached out to seize her, and ran.

I must have covered fully a hundred yards before I realized that pursuit had ceased. Then, upon looking around, I saw the hideous man-eater fluttering and squawking in an aimless circle on the sand.

There was a terrific din in the stadium around us. Believing it was caused by my own actions, I gently lowered the girl to the sand and reloaded my weapons. A shadow, darting across the sand in front of me, attracted my gaze to the heavens and disabused my mind. I saw that which had probably saved both of us from annihilation by the lethal tiibes — for the sky was actually swarming with spinning spheres, similar in color and outline to the one which had drawn us to this strange land, but only half as large. Many of them alighted in the arena, and belched forth an army of white warriors, armed with lethal tubes and Avaveshields. The panic-stricken yellow people fled this way and that like frightened birds seeking cover, while the tubes of the white warriors took deadly toll. The few bird soldiers in the stadium were quickly disposed of, and it began to look like a thorough victory for the white men, when suddenly the huge globe which had brought us to Alsitar came whirling into view, followed by a flock of smaller globes filled with the yellow defenders. Evidently Vangar De had survived the attack and managed to reach his globe.



' Rotatlnf? with such rapidity that its portholes were invisible, the big globe descended toward the arena. Suddenly a red ray shot out from it to one of the smaller globes of the white attackers. It arose, and was hurled out into space. Then another and anotl),er, caught by the whirling red ray, hurtled out of the arena in long parabolas and disappeared into the blue sky above ns.

The girl at my feet stirred uneasily, and I helped her to rise.

“If my father would only come,” she cried, “victory might yet be ours. But the great globe of Vangar De is far too powerful for our ordinary war-globes.’’

One by one, the globes of the Gulvasorians were hurled into outer space until only two remained in the arena. Then; with unexpected suddenness, a huge globe, fully as large as that of Vangar De, appeared.

“He comes! He comes!” cried the girl. “Now will the bird-men learn the might of Tensan De.”

Spinning with a velocity that equaled, if it did not excel that of the first globe, the second whirled toward it. They did not collide as I expected, but suddenly began revolving around a common center with such speed that they formed a great blurred ring in the sky above our heads, united by two red rays, each of which projected from one of the globes.

Presently from this giant pinwheel there came a familiar crackling sound. A trail of scintillating sparks appeared, and two violet rays now connected the whirling globes. Vangar I^e, I assumed, was trying to use his lifiolet ray as he had used it on our ship, and send his rival’s globe hurtling into a different angle of vibration, but the ray of Tensan De neutralized it and was, in turn, neutralizedv

The pinwheel, meanwhile, did not remain stationary in the sky, but

By Otis Adelbett Kline


Mail $2 to WEIRD TALES. Book Dept. K-4, 840 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago, and this book tvill be mailed to you postpaid.

Travel through strange, new lands in a strange, new world, the planet Venus, with Robert Grandon, ex-social lion from dear old Terra Firma* — in this thrilling yam of strange adventures — and virile imaghiatioD. It’s a trip worth taking.

Special First Edition Autographed by Author

ackache

If functional Bladdon Irritation disturbs your sleep, causes Burning or Itching Sensation, Backache or Leg Pains, making you feel tired, depressed and discouraged, why not try the Cystex 48 Hour Test? Don’t give up. Get Oystex today at any drug store. Put it to the test. See how fast it works. Money back if it doesn’t bring quick improvement, and satisfy you completely. Try Cystex today. Only GOc.

Quit Tobacco

Dfm’t try to banish unaided the hold tobacco has upon you.

Thousands of iuyeterate tobacco users have, with the aid of the Keeley Treacment. found it easy to quit.


TOBACCO HABIT tobacco^^Succeis'faf

for over SO year». Write tod^ for FREE BOOK ond our MONEY BACK GUABANTEE.

KEELEY INSTITUTE, Dept, F-IOB. Dwighi, Illinois

SONQ WBITBBS; SimSTANTIAL ADVANCE

Royalties are paid on publiSlier's acoeptande. Nj 2 W booklet, "Song Requirements of Talking PiotuTes," ’ Sent free. Newcomer Associates, 784 Earl Building. New York.



Next Month



and


'^wo of the most popular Weird ■L Talks authors have combined to write one of the most powerful and fascinating stories of devilworship ever penned. Breathing the exotic witchery of the Orient, this stirring tale has the added thrill of svdft and vivid action, and colossal issues hang upon the epic clash of the thirsty blades.

ATALE of the devil-worshipers of Kurdistan, and the promise made to Abdemon, the swordsman of Tyre, by King Solomon; a romantic story of Neferte the beautiful, and the tremendous duel between the Black Prince, the Father of Lies, and the avatar of Abdemon in the underground abode of Malik Taus himself. This wholly unusual novelette will be printed complete in the

February issue of


On Sale January 1st

Clip and Mail this Coupon Today 1

WHaSD TALKS,

840 North Michi^fut Are.,

Chicare, HI.

Enclosed And $1 for special five months subscription to ‘‘Weird Tales” to begin with the February issue ($1.25 in Canada). SpopiaJ offer voM nnless remittance is accompanied by coupon.

Address

OHy SMte

darted this way and that, and whirled in every conceivable plane. Presently it dipped toward us, there in the arena.

“Run! Run for j’^our life!”

I heard the warning cry of the gii’l. Simultaneously a violet light fell on me and the world in wliieh I stood melted from my vision. I felt myself falling — then I splashed into cold, salt water. Domi, down I went, for many seconds, before I had the sense to strike out. It was a long swim to the surface, where I presently emerged with nearly bursting lungs. I was in rough water and my guns and ammunition weighted me (iown until swimming was next to impossible.

Unclasping my two gun-belts and letting them sink, I slipped out of my raincoat and jacket, kicked off my boots, and managed to keep afloat more easily. I presently made out, far I in the distance, a rocky shore-line,

I whence came the boom of breakers,

I and struck out for it, swimming steadily to conserve my strength.

How I managed to reach that shore alive and drag myself beyond the reach of the waves, I scarcely know. Wlien full possession of my reasoning faculties came once more, I found that I had somehow beep again transported to the terrestrial kngle of vibration. For many months I subsisted on sheU-fish and fruits, hoping for sight of a rescue ship.

Years, passed. They were year^.of loneliness which would have. drivep me quite mad but for a certain memory — a vision of a lovely creature t had held in my arms for a brief instant, only to lose her forever.

Bom to this world, I am no longer of it, for my heart lies back in that fai’ or near angle of vibration called Alsitar, and although I now deem it hopeless’ I long to go back — to learn once and for all if the golden-haired Rosan still lives with her learned ' father, Tensan De, in the land of (xnd,-! vasora.

Jjy^ITH hack to the wall he watched

them. They were waiting for him to collapse before they killed him. He had notslept^ he had not eaten— he could barely breathe. He had tended these man-eatingblacicsin theirmisery and now this fiendish attack was his reward.

Suddenly from nowhere app)eared this rosy cheeked, clear-eyed girl to help defend him. Alone on this far-off South Sea island they fought the two hundred I

What strange trick of fate could have driven this j oung American to cast his lot among savages? Wlio was (his mysterious girl? How came she there? AVliat was the fate of these two strangely assorted companions?

Let J ack London tell you the answer to this and a hundred other thrilling, gripping adventures and amazing romances in the

No other form of entertainment offers uou so muchthritling deligfitand education, rolled into one, for so little money. Good books are by far the most economical form of enjoyment today.

WOM.!) fAMOUS WORKS OF ^

JACK lONDON^i

The First Uniform Edition Ever Published —12 Priceless Volumes of Education and Wild Delight at a Bargain That May Never Be Repeated— Quantity on hand is limited!

TOE the first in your community to own these — the IJ World’s greatest stories of raging adventure, flaming conflict and daring romance ever written I Sailor, gold miner, philosopher, tramp, oyster pirate and university student, never a man lived as Jack Ikmdon! And into Ids books he poured the accumulatctl wealth of his own tur. bulcnt career. So vivid, so realistic are these absorbing pages you feel yourself actually taking part in every situation.

4600 Absorbing Pages of Adventure

In breathless succession you race from one thrilling episode to another — from arctic Sil>eria to torrid Africa — from the.South Sea Islands to England's misty shores — for these areextraor- <linary tales, so stirringly told that you will never tire of reading tlicm over and over again. They help you relax and

small edition far below the regular publisher’s

E rice! Madej^ssibleonly y eliminating editorial and platocostsaltogethcr and by manufacturing the books in the dull season.

These sets are going fast. ACT TODAY!

Ten Days Free Inspection Simply mail the bargain coupon and read tlieseglorious volumes 10 days

free. No money down I BUT DON’ T WAIT!

Tliis opportunity. may never W come your ^ n. « way again I ^

1-30

.j^^McKINlAY,.^STONES p MACKENZIE, ^ 114E.16thSLN.Y.

Send me for free exam*

(nation, ail charaes preMid, youp new Uniform Edition of the World Pa* moua Works of Jack London in 12 volumes, handsomely bound m doth, if at the end of

O ' JOdays I ammore thandelighted, 1 shall keep them and send you $1 promptly and SI a month thereafter for only 14 months. Otherwise 1 will return theset in 10 days at I'ourexpense,

the examination to cost me no^n^.

McKinlay, Stone & Mackenzie, Dept. 234 114 East 16th Street. New York City, N. Y.

^ (5o|o off for rash) For rich Art Craft bindint; with gilt tope,

▼ change above to tl.SO a month for the same number of months.

[THE END]
