============================================================
Weird Tales
Volume 16, Number 6
Date: December 1930
============================================================
============================================================
TABLE OF CONTENTS

  1. "A Dream of Bubastis Harvey W" by Flink
  2. "Lucifer John D" by Swain
  3. "The Wolf of St" by Bonnot Seabury Quinn
============================================================
============================================================
A DREAM OF BUBASTIS HARVEY W
by Flink
============================================================
The dumfounded doctor looked at an amazed nurse, as bits of glass from the broken skylight dropped around them. The black disk which they had been examining a few seconds ago had vanished.

A Dream of Bubastis

By HARVEY W. FLINK

I dreamt I stood before a shrine of Bast,

And harkened to the piping of her flutes,

Whilst in the dusk two Ethiopian mutes

Came through the granite gates, and bound me fast.

They laid me on an altar-stone and fled Like shadows from the hall, and in my dream I heard above the flutes a wailing scream.

And saw the goddess with the feline head.

I groaned, and in the censer’s golden smoke I watched her lift her black, enormous paws:

She tore my flesh with gleaming agate claws Until, with sweat upon my brow, I woke . . *

And knew that in the dawn a creature sat Sphinx-like upon my chest: it was a cat.

7be PRIMEVAL

PIT fcj n VAiiMs

“ REAT snakes! Joe, did you ever ® -w- see the like of it?” exclaimed Haines, the shorter and stouter built of the two men, hoarsely, as he stared at the two-mile stretch of placid water fully five hundred feet below them.

"It's a slice of luck; and by the look of these walls it’s a miracle if we ever get down to it,” replied the tall, spare Elkins as he craned his head farther over the edge of the huge wall to obtain a better view of it.

"Well, we got to make it,” said Haines, relapsing into his natural slow, stolid manner of speech.

"Sure we’ll make it — this blasted wall can’t go on forever without a break,” growled his partner as his gaze returned longingly to the silvery shimmering surface that lay fully a mile or more distant, yet by reason of their elevation seemingly so close to them.

In all the four days of their crossing the desolate plateau the scarcity of water had been their great trouble. Hardship, heat, cold, hunger — nothing to kick about in those. Not a grumble had escaped them even in the stifling heat of the airless hollows; or the roasting hell of the open where a million facets of glassy rock reflected the molten shafts of a flaming sun that ceaselessly assailed them; or nights when they had shivered in the biting chill, when the rocks crackled and rang in contraction, as the temperature dropped maybe sixty degrees in an hour after sundown, and the plateau sloughed the heat it had bathed in. For fire had been denied them, there being never a twig or a blade of grass in all that immense desolation. So for four days never a morsel of cooked food or hot cheering mate had passed their lips, and a little sun-dried meat and uncooked beans were




all they had to sustain them. An occasional trickle of seepage in the depths of a canyon had just held life in them and sustained their determination to reach a spot from which it would again be possible to resume their search for the treasure that had brought them deep into the trackless and totally unknown regions of the northern Andes.

It was just a tale they heard in Paita: told, between gasps and the red froth that stained the pallid lips of the dying derelict, to the two hard-eyed adventurers who had befriended him and eased his last hours of the misery of loneliness and poverty. Just a few faint choking words that had sent them hurrying into the storm-swept savagery of "the Top of the World,” as the Peruvians so aptly term the immense range that frowns down on the Pacific shelf, where alone maps are anything but mere waste paper to the traveler in that great wilderness. A tale of wandering in the wilds far to the north; and coming on a tribe of nomadic natives who had offered for sale a dozen or so small rubies, which, they stated, now and again they found inside the migrating waterfowl that broke their passage south by alighting in a small near-by lake the tribe frequented. He had purchased them for the price of a blanket, and later turned them over for the price of a week’s spree in a filthy drinking-tavern of a coastal town. But he knew something of such things, and affirmed there was no doubt whatever of their identity and value, and held the natural conclusion that somewhere north of that lake, hidden in the huge hills there lay another stretch of water in whose gravel beaches there might lie a fortune for the lucky discoverer.

So, as though there was only one course open to them, they had come to Pienta Arenas, where he had made the purchase; and from there they had struck

fearlessly into the heart of the vast range that towered above this last outpost of almost savage humanity.

That Odyssey might seem worthy of a modern Homer’s epic; to them it was the merest commonplace of existence. Through frightful, almost impassable passes; across soaring cloud-wreathed summits; piercing appalling canyons; following foaming creeks, whose wild waters vanished in veils of mist down depths lost in obscurity; always on and on, the two men, foot by foot, fought their way ever northward. Creek after creek was panned without a trace of treasure to reward and inspire their labors; nevertheless each failure meant no more than that another creek could be abandoned, and but narrowed the ground yet to be covered before that last flow would direct them to the source of the waiting fortune.

Then they had come upon this immense plateau, and as they dropped down to it lying several thousand feet below the average fifteen thousand they had arrived at, there could just be discerned another range of high peaks far in the haze of the distance, and they reckoned fifty miles would barely span the crossing to them. And to this range the urge of the unknown, the lure of wealth, the spirit of high adventure — all drove them irresistibly forward.

That this plateau had been the scene of enormous convulsions was unmistakable, for deep rents 'and crevices meandered and crisscrossed in every direction; crags and sheer bluffs of a totally alien nature dotted it; and millions of great boulders were profusely strewn over its every acre.

Of course such rock-wise men as Elkins and Haines could not fail to note that the glassy vitreous surface of the canyons, faces of bluffs and many boulders evidenced the fiery breath that eons past had scorched the solid rock as though

THE PRIMEVAL PIT


it was brown paper; but as rubies, like most other gems, are born in the anguish of inconceivable heat, in spite of the toil and privation the crossing entailed the two men endured it with fortitude, and even regarded the desolation with some favor.

Yet in four days by well-nigh incredible labor they had not crossed the half of it, though from a high bluff they had come to the conclusion that the plateau was considerably wider than they had first estimated. Then just before sundown of the fourth day they reached the edge of the huge abyss; for no other word could convey a correct impression of the great depth and sheer walls that enclosed that enormous depression.

Quite suddenly a canyon they had been following had fallen away into the void of empty space, and coming to the edge of that nothingness, and peering over, they found themselves gazing in speechless wonder at what was apparently another world altogether. Hundreds of feet below, billow after billow of dense forests covered the undulating bottom of a vast depression, whose opposite wall was so distant that, even from their elevation, it could be discerned only as a narrow shadowy ribbon whose ends meandered into haze and invisibility. Exactly below lay the silver blue of a small lake, and other gleaming patches in the distance seemed to denote that a considerable stream, widening into basins, flowed diagonally across; though the extreme length could be marked only by the summits of ranges enclosing them.

It was as marvelous as a mirage, immense, a paradise of delight, after the setting of desolation and sterility the staring men had fought with for days; and for men who had hardly more than wet their parched throats in the last twentyfour hours.

Yet Elkins, who by nature was a born

scientist, and indeed possessed a fair degree of geological learning, had at once stared shrewdly at the frowning walls where prominent buttresses rendered them visible; and in his hardly conscious mutter probably summed the matter very closely. "A huge fault in the strata — a bad jolt — and down she drops in a solid chunk; while the molten stuff below is squeezed each side and lifts the hills a trifle.” Then Haines, whose eyes had no concern with anything save the water, had broken in on his musings, and he too became absorbed in the problem of reaching it; and after a little vain peering decided that whether they followed the crest east or west the descent was a pure gamble, and likely a very hazardous one.

V ery soon, the sun sliding below the horizon, they were turning to seek shelter in the canyon from a chill night air that commenced to flow over the bluff’s edge, and Elkins, delaying a second to stare thoughtfully into the gathering dusk, suddenly cried sharply: "Look, Tom! what sort of birds are those?” and Haines, whipping around, was just in time to catch a glimpse of the last winged thing as it vanished into the forest.

"The Sam Hill! they must be as large as ostriches! Why, at that distance a condor would seem no bigger than a sparrow!” he exclaimed in some astonishment.

"And there was at least half a dozen of them — I just noted them as they crossed the narrow neck,” explained Elkins, referring to the western end of the waters where it dwindled to a fourth its middle width. "But after all, I reckon it’s the half light on die water sort of balls things up, for there’s no birds that big in all South America,” he asserted with careless conviction.

"That’s so,” agreed Haines, "but likely they’re big waterfowl anyway; and with



luck we’ll have roast bird tomorrow,” he added very contentedly; and so the matter was dismissed as a quite insignificant happening.

For some time in the cold starlight the two men sat smoking and talking of this amazing depression; mainly from the angle of its chancing to prove the source of the waterfowl’s discovery; for undoubtedly such an expanse of water would tempt the birds to break their passage across the sterile ranges; and in spite of the bitter cold of night, the gnawing of hunger — for the last morsel of dried meat had vanished that morning — and the bite of thirst, they were highly elated and made light of their discomfort.

"Shall we chance it?” queried Elkins, staring down gravely at the hundred foot drop that yet separated them from the rubble slope that fringed the wall’s bottom.

"Damned if I know, Joe — one slip would end a guy’s thirst for keeps,” replied Haines slowly. "Yet it looks like it’s this drop or nothing,” he added thoughtfully.

Now it was noon and the molten sun had heated the shadeless rocks to a pitch when a careless touch meant a seared cuticle, and the green shade so close to them seemed an unbelievable heaven.

Since dawn they had followed the crest, first to the east, then to the westward; and the endless ravines and canyons opening out into this vast depression had made the going slow and infinitely laborious. At last they had returned to the only spot where they deemed descent was in the least feasible: a gully that cut into the wall far deeper than any they had discovered. No more than a hundred feet was the height of its last great step, which ended in a slope of jagged rubble where nothing but clumps of tough dwarf scrub could find nutrition. Yet — with luck — it was possible; for its

face was broken with many fairly wide shelves, and much of the rock was threaded with seams and crevices that a desperate man by the grace of fortune might lower himself by. Here and there undoubtedly would be spots where he must drop and trust to keeping his balance on a shelf below. But still it was barely possible; and already the torment of the fire of thirst was weakening them, and they knew that shortly this last chance would be closed to nerves and muscles sapped of their virility.

"That’i the way I size it — we’ll take a chance,” said Elkins with quick decision; for by unspoken consent in any crucial matter the final word seemed ever to rest with the speaker. "But we’ll lash the blankets about the pack before we sling them over — though we daren’t chance the guns that way.” And after some peering over and discussion of the line of their descent, they lashed both packs, the pans and cooking-ware in the center, around with blankets and made one bundle of them. With a dull sound it hit the rubble and bounded to the slope’s foot.

"Hope that billy ain’t busted,” said Haines anxiously; and in a moment the two men, a few feet apart, were carefully, though coolly, lowering themselves over a drop that spelt instant and horrible destruction if a hand failed to hold or a fragment of stone came away in its clutching fingers.

"Well, that’s that!” said Elkins cheerfully as his partner dropped the last dozen feet of sheer rock face to the slope he stood on.

"And it’s a sure thing nothing but a fly could make it back again,” said the new arrival, breathing heavily, for his solid build had felt the severe strain more than his partner’s steel sinews. And his statement was by no means a grim exaggeration; for in a couple of places, high up, the wall face had lacked a single

THE PRIMEVAL PIT


niche for a finger and they had been compelled to chance a drop of many feet to a ledge beneath; and on one of these occasions but for Haines’ herculean arm Elkins would have failed to recover his balance and swayed backward into space — but that was all in the game, and neither spoke nor thought any more of it.

A hasty examination relieved their anxiety of damage to their hardware, which seemed to concern them much more than the daring skill of their descent, and quickly shouldering the packs they commenced to make their way along the rubble slope to the lake, which lay about a couple of miles distant. The sun beat full upon the towering wall and the heat in the narrow passage between it and the tall forest was as stifling as an airless boiler room with the furnace gates wide open; but a thorny jungle fringed and invaded the still depths, and it would have been an arduous waste of precious time to pierce this barrier; so doggedly they went on through the heat and rough going, with their thoughts entirely centered on the mighty reward awaiting them. Yet now and again they thought they heard the tinkling of running water in the distance, and by its persistence arrived at the conclusion that a large creek must be running lakeward.

By careful note of some projecting spurs and massive bosses from the heights above diey had little difficulty in deciding where they must strike into the forest to hit the lake; and with much labor and swearing broke through the rim of jungle, which here had greatly narrowed, and entered the forest proper; and even in their exhausted and water-famished condition they could not avoid noting the strangeness of some of the great growths which here and there they met in almost isolated clumps and single specimens amid the usual rank growths of a tropic

forest. Before one unusually large growth Elkins halted for a moment and surveying it with a puzzled frown exclaimed hoarsely, "These trees are queer — look at this joker! Ever seen anything like it, Tom?” he asked irritably, as one tired of marvels and impatient of yet having to observe diem.

"It ain’t a beauty,” acknowledged Haines, severely regarding the tree. "Looks like it was as old as Satan, and a damned heap more wicked,” he added with increasing disfavor.

And indeed the strange giant had a most forbidding exterior; for its immense bole, that was lost in the green canopy fully a hundred feet above them, was covered with large horn-like scales that rose in their centers to sharp dark-hued points that bore a striking resemblance to the poisoned talon on the end of the tail of a scorpion. Sharp, curved, and shading to a glistening black, they possessed a most repellent and vicious appearance, and very evidently would be wicked things for any flesh that brushed against them; while to add to the suspicion of latent hostility the thing aroused in the observer, each horny scale had a straggly fringe of coarse gristly hairlike threads drooping from its edges and thinly veiling it. Its foliage was invisible, but crooked scaly limbs could be made out in the dim light overhead. Truly the thing was abnormal, an enigma, and entirely distasteful to the two who stared at it, as though something hoary, unnatural and incredibly aged had stepped from the abortions of the primeval and come to poison a gentler creation with its fierce malice and foulness.

“Curious,” muttered Elkins as though thinking aloud, "there was once — -hell! that’s a crazy notion. Say, let’s get a move on; my throat’s burning up for a mouthful of water.”

And thereafter they paid no attention



to other like growths and still others, fantastic and unnatural but not so markedly unlovely, that they met with. But one peculiarity of these strange growths had a profound bearing on the partners’ fortunes; for oddly there was but little underbrush where they flourished, and almost involuntarily the men’s steps inclined from their course to avail themselves of the clearings. This accounted for their striking the lake near its center instead of at the narrow neck they aimed for. Likely this saved their lives, for, unwitting of the deadly peril they had come into, most probably their bodies would have been slashed to ribbons before they realized the savage nature of the winged brutes that swooped down on them.

Both were stretched full length on a shelf of flat rock that, almost level with the lake’s surface, reached some yards out into a shallow; and each man was gulping great drafts of elixir as though he would drink on forever. Behind them lay a narrow strip of pinky quartz outcropping that rimmed the lake for some way each side of them; behind that lay a dense thicket of stout growths much the size and appearance of northern alders.

E lkins was the first to hear the dull beat of heavy wings approaching; looking up he stared in the direction the , sound came from, which was to westward of the narrow neck they had thought to hit.

"Say, Tom!” he exclaimed, "just look at this bunch, will you? Fresh meat, sure enough — but what the devil are they?” And Haines, raising his head from drinking, stared also at the flying things that about a quarter of a mile away were coming at a great speed toward them; though the odd powerful wings beat so slowly that their passage seemed more the swoop of a hawk than an effort of their wings.

"What sort of birds are they?” cried Haines in amazement. "Unless my eyes are on the blink I’m blessed if they got a feather on them.”

And as he spoke a duck rose squawking from the surface right in front of the strange things and made off at full speed for a bed of reeds. There came a downward drive by one brute a little ahead of his companions; an enormous beak gaped and in a flash had closed on the fleeing bird. That was all; there was no more to be seen of the duck than there is of a midge snapped up by a bat!

"By !” cried Elkins blankly.

"What’s this? bolt a duck at a mouthful! Say! these brutes are making for us! Quick, Tom, beat it to the bush! those beaks could slash a limb off.”

Luckily these were men accustomed to quick decision and instant action; but at that, they reached cover a few yards away not a second too soon. For in spite of their deliberate movement of wing, which afforded a false impression, they came up at an immense pace, and the two men had no more than burst into the shelter of a grove of thick - foliaged lesser growths that for some distance here fringed the giants beyond, when the thud of the wings of the foremost brutes was above them and the air resounded with harsh loud cries of bestial savagery.

Peering out through the stout stems they saw the brutes withdraw a little, and, after some fluttering about the edge of the water, arise to a hundred feet or so, and there more slowly pass backward and forward like pointers quartering a covert. But the little time they hovered had sufficed to show the amazed watchers the extraordinary appearance these things presented, and the fact that they bore not the least resemblance to any species of bird they had ever seen or heard of — if bird they could be called. For save in possessing wings and beaks there lay no

THE PRIMEVAL PIT


feature that could be identified as falling certainly into that classification; rather were they the abortions that alcoholcrazed victims screaming flee from.

Great, featherless, hairless monsters with angular, ungainly bodies not less than five or six feet long ending in short thick legs with long clawed feet that seemed covered with homy plates. Above, long snaky necks ending in blunt thick heads that without a break ran into enormous beaks nearly a third of their body in length; thick, wide, sharp-pointed, and it seemed as though the edges were deeply serrated; one glance was enough to realize that these would be terrible weapons, quite capable of stabbing and slashing a strong man to ribbons. And their wings with their full fifteen-foot stretch, like a dirty brown parchment in hue and texture; leathery stuff through which ridges of bone and gristle were plainly visible, and what looked like a couple of long curved talons on the outer edge; these things were all in the picture the astounded men stared at. To the greasy, sickening flapping of their monstrous wings, the brutes were horrible, crude, and brutal beyond expression, as was the strong rank odor as of putrid meat that saturated the air with its filthiness on their first close onslaught.

"Don’t shoot, Tom!” said Elkins quickly as he laid a restraining hand on his partner’s upflung arm and gun. "Better save our shells — we may need them. No saying how many of these hell-fired things roost in this pit; and maybe there’ll be trouble getting clear of it.”

"But what are these damned things? I never heard tell of the like of them. They ain’t birds, that’s certain,” growled Haines as he blankly stared at the last one flap along the lake’s edge and beyond his range of vision.

"They’ve got me guessing,” confessed

Elkins. "There was once ” he comW. T — 5

menced, then broke off short and impatiently muttered, "But that’s just craziness!” and continued, "We just got to take the facts as we find them — we’ve run up against some sort of brutes we never heard of, but they’re facts, and there ain’t a doubt in the world but any one of those queer things could rip a guy up easy as look at him; and seemingly they’re partial to living meat. We saw ten of them — Lord only knows how many more of the breed there may be around us. I tell you, Tom, I don’t fancy the look of things,” he added thoughtfully.

"No. I ain’t stuck on the uglies myself,” said Haines simply. "Seems to me one of us must stand sentry any time we fossick around in the open, and keeping close to cover I reckon we won’t get hurt any,” suggested Haines in the matter-offact tone in which one would discuss the most commonplace occurrence. For his solid, unimaginative nature was quite content to accept the evidence of his senses without troubling overmuch, whether it offended common sense, or the common interpretation of such.

A little while they quietly listened to the flapping wings as in ever widening circles the brutes slowly drifted away from them, and shortly the sound died away in the distance. Then they came to the wood’s edge, and after carefully scanning the vicinity, commenced to make their way cautiously eastward about the lake’s edge. But now, though refreshed by the water, they suffered much from hunger; for no more than a handful or so of raw beans had they eaten in the last two days. However, luck was now with them, and in a narrow sheltered slough they flushed a large waterfowl from its nest in the reeds; instantly Elkins had cut its head off with a .38-bore bullet. After the report had ceased to shatter the breathless silence.



for a moment they heard a distant harsh screaming, but it ceased abruptly, and nothing further happening, very quickly a smokeless blaze had the hastily skinned bird scorching over it. That and a billy of steaming mate made new men of them; and as the day was far spent and the spot snug for camping they decided to go no farther, but have a long night in and start with completely restored vigor at dawn. They had little fear of being attacked during the night, as they were satisfied that the brutes, being unembarrassed by the midday sun, would not likely be abroad in the darkness; nevertheless they agreed to take turn about in watching and sleeping.

As dusk descended, the hush and peace that surrounded them seemed as perfect and innocuous as a New England countryside on a summer sundown. It was hard to believe that but an hour or two back, seconds only had separated them from the ghastly death that had descended like a whirlwind with strange terrible shapes astride it. But though the men contentedly smoking by the firelight might have been no more than a couple of camping fishermen enjoying a wellearned vacation, yet each man was immersed in a train of thought that fishermen would scarcely indulge in.

Haines’ thoughts ran all on a ledge he had marked as worthy of close examination, and Elkins, whose ideas ranged farther and were always seething with speculative queries and delvings, was full of a brilliant invention for minting hard cash out of the weird abortions that had assailed them.

"See here, Tom,” he exclaimed as the thought boiled over, "I wouldn’t wonder but the hide of one of those brutes might be worth a tidy few dollars if we toted it back to the coast — those highbrow museums just eat up such things.”

"What, the hide of a blasted thing like

that?” said Haines in surprize, but as he had a great respect for his partner’s more nimble gray matter he added more hopefully, "And can you put a figure to it, Joe?”

"A figure? Well, I dunno exactly, but I do call to mind that some old bones of a beast dead thousands of years ago fetched well into four figures,” replied Elkins thoughtfully as he recalled some odd paragraph he had come on in his omnivorous reading; for when opportunity offered he had an insatiable thirst for devouring every scrap of information on the natural sciences he could assimilate from periodicals and other sources adapted to the needs of the layman.

"Four figures!” echoed Haines. "Oh, that’s another matter. Then if luck’s against us we’ll shoot up the whole caboodle and start in the hide and bone business. Say! maybe there’s a bunch more of those uglies! Hell! I hope there’s a thousand,” he exclaimed enthusiastically, the prospect of such good fortune overriding any doubt of success as he stared out into the starlit water, as though trusting to see there an immediate response to his rapacious ambition. And even Elkins, who in spite of his imagination was a very shrewd reasoner and clearly saw the many obstacles to be overcome, caught a little of his enthusiasm. Moreover, though the precious metals and gems were the main motif of their existence, yet the exigency of living had interested them in oil, orchids, feathers, rubber, and even the hides of devils if thereby they came by hard cash to forward their search for El Dorado.

H aines was sleeping, and Elkins standing the first sentry go, when the night commenced to unbosom itself of strange loud noises that seemingly had their source far to the westward, where the lake greatly narrowed and the

THE PRIMEVAL PIT


wirtged things had vanished. Wonderingly he had listened to a hoarse coughing bellow that spilled itself suddenly into the stillness. The sound, allowing for the distance, was of preposterous volume, like that of a dozen wrath-inflamed bull challenges rolled into one. It ceased, then in a moment broke out afresh, and now another great throat was adding its quota to the hollow reverberations that came booming through the darkness. As he nudged Haines the sounds abruptly hurled themselves into each other in a typhoon blast of savagery.

"What in Sam Hill is this?” cried the awakened man as he leapt to his feet. "Hell’s a-popping out there — they must be bull elephants, or dragons belike mixing it! I never heard such a rumpus,” he declared as beside Elkins he strode from the fire and at the water's edge stood staring into the shapeless blur of the distance.

“Dragons?” growled Elkins harshly, and in his voice lay a curious recognition of an appropriate word just discovered. “Dragons? — maybe that’s a better guess than you reckon,” he muttered half to himself. “Anyhow I ain’t sorry the length of the water lays between us and those scrapping devils; and it strikes me, Tom, this blasted pit is all loco. What say, shall we up stakes and beat it in the morning?” And as he spoke there became audible the crash of rending wood fibers crackling like far-away gunfire, and the most hideous monstrous snarling that could be imagined.

"My !” cried Haines. "Whatever

they are they must be as large as houses! At this distance what sounds like dry sticks must surely be real big timber being busted — what sort of land is this we’ve got to?”

"I dunno,” replied Elkins savagely. "But there ain’t a doubt we’d better get out of it; I reckon we would be no more than humming-birds to beasts like those

scrappers. Just listen to that, will you?” he broke off suddenly, silenced by the enormity of the huge scream of brute agony that seeped the air with its poignant passion and swept the very skies with a titanic wrath and malign protest at the torture it suffered. Then, as a light blown out, it ceased, and a silence assailed the listeners, a silence that seemed even more filled with frightful things.

After waiting awhile, but no further uproar arising, they returned to the fire, and shortly Elkins was slumbering as peacefully as a babe in its mother’s arms.

T he dawn and a hearty though singlecoursed breakfast found them not so set on quitting, or at any rate the matter was by tacit agreement left in abeyance; though they resolved to exercise the greatest caution in their movements. But what sort of monsters they might have to deal with they could not conceive, therefore being not unduly loquacious men diey wasted no time in idle discussion.

With guns ready at half cock, and every sense keyed to highest pitch, they resumed their passage along the water’s edge. Here and there one or the other would pick at the numerous outcroppings, or wash a pan or two of gravel from the banks or shingle beaches. But though everywhere they found fine gold, yet there was never a sign of crimson stone, nor was the gold heavy enough to work with profit.

Nevertheless the ground was sufficiently interesting to raise their hopes to a pitch of anticipation that almost blinded them to the extraordinary nature of the creatures they had run up against; for these were men of the breed who dare everything and would challenge all the might of hell itself if it opposed the insatiable craving that obsessed their reckless determination.

As they had shrewdly suspected, there

788 WEIRD

could be no doubt but that in some bygone age a great river had swept through this country, and the placid lake was the last remnant of its greatness. For everywhere lay the evidence of gravel deposits and naked outcropping of eroded rock rising in low ridges above and between the imprisoned detritus, just as the play of flood and drought had filled the chasms and scoured the rock crests free of the burden the flow had for untold ages laid on them. Numerous small creeks had also furrowed the deposits with deep gashes. At the lower extremity of the lake they came upon a twentyfoot-wide overflow gliding and vanishing into the gloom and tangle of the forest depths; so it was very probable that a similar stream emptied itself into the lake at the upper narrow end.

It was as they neared this upper end that Elkins had discovered in his pan three tiny crimson fragments — the merest grains, almost microscopic, but under a pocket glass indisputably revealed as the lure that had driven them through the vast ranges and into this lonely land of nightmare creations.

"That settles it,” declared the finder triumphantly. "All the devils from hell may be hidden in there, but I’m going through with it. After all, two .38s aren’t a bad line of argument to meet any sort of damned brute with.”

Though unvoiced, as they drew closer, they had viewed with distrust and query what was apparently the haunt of the savage winged creatures and the scene of the fierce uproar in the night. Of the former they had no particular concern; for they could not free themselves of the impression that in spite of their weird appearance and savagery, the things were simply extraordinary birds, and as such could hardly be reckoned as menacing assailants; moreover, so long as cover was handy and a sharp lookout mainTALES

tained, they could easily evade an attack by them. But the brutes that had fought so savagely, and rent the very night with their frightful uproar, and splintered trees as though they were no more than brittle reeds — these things were another matter. For there could be no shadow of doubt but such brutes must be enormous and terrible antagonists. True, they were inconceivable, incomprehensible, monsters without name or history; nevertheless that did not make them any the less solid and menacing facts, and likely as not one might as well wear brown paper as the armor of dauntless courage when dealing with such gigantic savagery; and these men were neither fools nor movie heroes, but merely iron-souled prospectors, accustomed, in the ordinary routine of their business, to take many a long chance in the gamble with death.

But those tiny crimson grains had instantly turned distrust into indifference, and as Elkins had recklessly declared, the forest might be a hive of escaped devils but that wouldn’t hinder him from entering it; and Haines growling his approval of the sentiment, without hesitation they resumed their panning and passed steadily on to whatever might be awaiting them.

Here the lake was no more than a halfmile wide and rapidly narrowing to the end about a like space distant. The outcroppings were now rising into knolls and low bluffs that invaded and vanished in the fringing groves; and the banks of gravel descended to rubble beaches in sheer drops that topped the heads of the treasure-seekers, now gravely exultant, for pan after pan held in its crescent residue more of the crimson grains, now coarser and to be identified by the naked eye as small rubies. It was plain that somewhere beyond lay the storehouse that had spilled these minute fragments of its treasure abroad.

THE PRIMEVAL PIT


Suddenly Haines called excitedly, "See here, Joe! — that’s more like it!” and held out the pan to Elkins, who had been standing impatiently inactive; as they had agreed that only one of them should prospect while the other kept guard for assailants; and Haines being the more adroit and faster in handling his pan had performed most of the washing after the first little grains had delighted them.

"Yes,” said Elkins enthusiastically, "that sure is a pretty sight for sore eyes.”

His hand dipped into the shallow pan and picked out a little fragment the size of a small white bean; and the blood crimson of its fiery depths glowing as a living spirit through the unpolished vitreous surface proclaimed certainly its perfection and value. Even in that little stone lay many a day’s provender and simple luxuries for the finder.

"That’s the start of ” began

Haines, but never finished the sentence; for a yell from Elkins snapped it short.

"Look out, Tom! — here’s another of those devils!” he shouted in urgent warning, and before Haines had time to move a finger he saw his companion’s rifle flick to his shoulder and upward, and as the crash of the instant explosion shattered the deathly stillness and echoed from the wall of forest, a dark mass not fifty feet above them with thrashing wings shot past and over the water.

"Got him! between the eyes!” cried Elkins jubilantly. "See, he’s falling! Curse the blasted thing!” he added in bitter triumph, as a hundred feet away the ungainly evil-looking beast suddenly went into a spinning headlong dive; for a second it righted itself, then dropped and with a hollow crash hit the water. A vast convulsion of flailing leathery wings sent the foam flying in clouds and almost hid it from the watching men. Then something happened that left them

breathless with amazement and staring blankly at each other.

"What was that? Did you see it, Joe? — or am I crazy!” said Haines slowly as he turned to stare again at the heaving water where not a sign of the stricken brute was visible and only the speeding ripples were evidence of what had happened, and the monstrous nightmare thing they had seen rise above the surface and engulf what had lain there.

"Crazy!” echoed Elkins angrily. "No, but it will be a miracle if we both ain’t before we get quit ?f this blasted pit; for we’ve struck a land where nightmare shapes are solid things and ordinary facts ain’t got a leg to stand on. Crazy? No, we ain’t crazy; it’s old Father Time has got balled up in his bean, and spewed out things that ain’t got no right to be living. Of course it’s all crazy — but

by , it’s facts!” cried Elkins harshly,

and Haines listened not at all understanding what his partner was driving at.

"What you’re spilling I ain’t got a notion, Joe. But I do know that all the gems in this hell-fired hole wouldn’t make me cross that water. Why, a guy would need a six-inch gun to tackle that unholy dragon — I thought such things were kept special for booze-soaked guys and fairytales,” replied Haines as with a dazed troubled stare he still regarded the heaving water.

"Well, this is how I size it up — but I reckon we might as well get under cover and have a bite while we palaver,” said Elkins, turning to enter the grove of lesser growths that ribboned the wall of giant forest.

A little way in they seated themselves on some mossy boulders, by design opposite each other so as to command a view in every direction; and eating from a billy of cold boiled beans Elkins gave his view of the conundrum.

,790


"Well, I reckon you’ll think I’m bugs, or dreaming, but it ain’t no crazier than what we’ve seen,” said Elkins, lighting his pipe after a hasty meal at which no fire was lighted in case it might betray them to unknown monsters. "Right here I reckon we’re in a tight comer, and we’ll have to keep our eyes skinned if we want to get clear of it; but we’re on the track of a fortune and I’m damned if I quit without a try for it — ain’t that right, Tom?” he gravely asked his partner.

"Sure, that’s me,” replied Haines simply.

"Now you saw that gray white thing with a head like a Chinese devil and the size of a big barrel, and a great gash of a long-toothed jaw, blunt-ended and all whiskery like seaweed, and the yellow and slime of the inside of it, which was like to make a guy vomit, as that gash grabbed at the winged devil flogging the water with its fifteen-foot stretch of wing — just a snap and it was gone, easy as a trout flicks up a fly skimming above it. Now what sort of a beast that we are wise to could get away with a mouthful like that?”

"None I ever heard tell of,” replied Haines with conviction.

"Or those winged uglies — or the racket put up by the things that ramped somewhere around here last night. Seems like it numbs the brain just to think of it; but there’s one sort of answer, and it fits like a glove every one of the crazy shapes we’ve set eyes on. They’re all quite natural in the notion, so I don’t see no way out of it. First along, those blasted trees started me thinking; then birds without feathers and wicked as Satan gave me a jolt that really set memory working, for it wasn’t possible to make a mistake over things like those. I couldn’t believe it, but a kid would have noted how like they were to the pictures in books telling about such queer brutes; and now this

great water devil — I tell you, Tom, all are wrote about in the books I’ve studied odd times. Beasts that ramped around Lord only knows how many hundred thousand years back, and whose bones are sometimes found a hundred foot deep in solid stone. I can’t call to mind but few of the names the highbrows tag them with, mostly Latin and Greek I reckon, but that winged thing was a Peter — something or other, and the dragon the spit of a breed labeled Dinosaurs. I’ve turned it over and over but I can’t get away from it but these damned freaks are the same as what were in those books — what they call prehistoric monsters. If that’s the truth of it, then me and you, Tom, are up against a hard proposition, for some of those beasts stood twenty feet high and could bolt us whole without any chewing,” he declared thoughtfully, as carefully knocking the ashes from his pipe on to a bare rock he eyed them in frowning abstraction.

"Twenty feet!” repeated Haines, and then was silent in contemplation of the hugeness it pictured.

"Sure, in a museum they got a legbone as thick as your middle,” assured Elkins with the parental pride of your true scientist.

"But if those things cashed in all that while back, how do you reckon some chance to be still living down here?” queried Haines with a pertinacity for detail not uncommonly met with in men of his practical type.

"Well, I dunno — I ain’t wise to that,” admitted Elkins shortly. "Maybe about a million years back the land had a jolt that let drop this plateau in a solid chunk, and so walled the brutes in as a prison and whatever was the cause of the breed passing out couldn’t get at them. But that’s just a guess; all we’re dead sure of is what we’ve clapped our eyes on- — and no logic or learning can give the lie to that,” he

THE PRIMEVAL PIT


asserted simply. And as his past studies could afford no further light on the matter, and time and fate were hard on their heels, they left discussion to a time of more leisure. For their mode of life had bred in their blood an impatience of inaction and mere words, and a strong bias in favor of decision and instant action when danger threatened. Moreover, they had no thought of abandoning the search before they had satisfied themselves one way or another if fortune was hid there or not.

Foot by foot they sampled the gravel banks, though by reason of frequent halts to listen intently and scan the way ahead their progress was much retarded. But far or near nothing stirred, and the quiet was as that of a painted picture or the silence of the dead, and over all as a shroud lay the stifling heat in which their pigmy figures, seemingly no more important than maggots bred in festering filth, ceaselessly nibbled at Mother Earth as they slowly pressed onward.

So they came to the lake’s extremity, where a deep creek entered it between the high banks of a conglomerate of clay and pebble of cement-like hardness. The banks became more lofty a little way in and the gloom of the dense forest roof imparted an intangible air of mystery and menace to the narrow passage. Even their hardihood disliked its treacherous appearance and for a moment they hesitated, in doubt if it would not be better to reconnoiter the vicinity somewhat. But impatience overruled prudence, for the pan had proved that the nearer they approached this somber channel the dirt became richer, and though no stone equaled the one in Haines’ pouch, yet nearly a dozen fragments now lay there almost as well worth the saving.

"We got to chance it!” said Elkins impatiently after a few seconds’ survey. "Might take an hour to run over the ground, and then a brute could amble

along any moment; besides, if we go quiet, the rush of the water and height of the banks will hide us from sight or hearing of anything not actually staring down on us,” he urged, reasonably enough.

"That's right,” said Haines. "And if ever I saw a likely spot for fossicking it’s right ahead of us,” he added with the fever of the search firing his voice.

W ithout further hesitation they entered the cutting, and making their way along a narrow edge of rubble that lay at each side of tl\e water were soon absorbed again in panning, though as before only Haines did the washing while Elkins remained on guard.

At once it became apparent that their high expectations stood some chance of being justified, for pan after pan bequeathed more of the crimson pebbles to their pouches, even now and again a specimen larger than the one first placed there.

"Why, Joe, we must have a tidy stake on us right now,” said Haines as he handed his partner another fragment to pouch.

"Depends on their quality, but I reckon they’re beauties — maybe five hundred dollars lays on us this moment,” replied Elkins, adjudging the weight in his hand; for though no expert, yet his knowledge of gems was greater than his partner’s.

"Then even if there ain’t nothing larger in this dirt, still we could scrape a small fortune out of it in a few days’ panning,” exclaimed Haines, anxiously waiting for a corroboration of the statement.

But Elkins made no answer, instead stood keenly eyeing the opposite bank where a stray spear of sunlight had lit on a vein of dark pebbles recently exposed by a miniature landslide of the dirt and trailing vines that had faced them.

Haines looked up in surprize at his partner’s sudden apathy. "Hear anything?” he queried in a low voice.

"No,” replied Elkins slowly, then



sighed deeply as though just awakened. "But take a squint over there, will you? — if that ain’t what we’re after, then it’s damned like it!” And Haines after one sharp look at the extremity of the light shaft agreed with the speaker.

“Holy prophets!” he exclaimed; “it’s like as though a crimson fire burned there!” And he stared at the glowing spot that the spear point rested on. An eye of flaming light at least a couple of inches in diameter, it seemed as truly living as any wild feline’s they had ever gazed on.

“I reckon this water ain’t more than waist-high,” was all that Elkins said, as, slipping off his pack, he raised it shoulderhigh, and with rifle gripped in the hand of the circling arm he led the way into the black waters.

“T reckon we’d better stop and beat it, A Joe,” said Haines hoarsely, “or we’ll be toting back common pebbles. I can’t trust my eyes no longer to tell one from the other,” he complained in a shaking voice.

For some while they had been working feverishly but silently, the first burst of incredulous wonder having burnt itself out in the succeeding realization that each stone they handled was without question a gem of the* first water, and the storehouse they lay in apparently inexhaustible. A vein a bare six inches wide running diagonally across a face of clay and common rubble, it meandered from the beach several feet upward; and every other stone they picked from it was a blood-red precious gem. Many the size of a large filbert, a few the bigness of a walnut, and a couple of magnificent finds, lay beside the pile between them, the size and shape of an ordinary hen’s egg. Even from the debris that had sloughed from the wall could have been garnered a pailful of lesser stones; but with such a treasure chest in front of them these were neglected. Their pouches early had been filled to bursting, so they had hastily scooped a hollow in the loose rubble and set their finds in it. Just a pile of glowing crimson pebbles, but the least among them would equal in value the figure earned by twelve months of hard labor.

Wealth beyond avarice! It was no dream; stone by stone they had handled it. At last Fate had smiled on them; but behind her apparent kindliness lay a taunting jeer of malice, as with one hand she thrust her gift upon them, while the other had already the fingers crooked to snatch away her treasures.

Likely the noise of the water — for though an unhurried flow and at most points quite fordable, yet close above a ridge of rock made a swirl of clamorous rapids — and the sharp bend in the creek just below had held them unaware of the approach of the enormous thing that came shuffling along the creek bed and suddenly appeared from around the turning not a hundred yards below the intent workers, who had recklessly abandoned all pretense of caution, and indeed, for the moment had forgotten everything save their delirious greed in the discovery.

The colossal thing ceased to shuffle, and craning its long thick neck forward stared eagerly at the pigmy figures; then snuffed at the air suspiciously, as though the odor of the human species was something new and incomprehensible. And the sound of that vast inhalation was as the sough of a sudden blast of wind amid the forest tops.

In a flash the bent figures had whirled around, and each had swept up his rifle and snapped the safety catch wide open. But in the same second all thought of using such insignificant weapons had deserted them; for obviously it was an inane absurdity to dream of tackling such a monstrous creature with anything less efTHE PRIMEVAL PIT


fective than a field gun, or preferably a trench mortar. Never had they imagined that anything so vast, unnatural and savage-looking could exist even in that lair of horrific things. It was so entirely out of prpportion with its surroundings, as though it had been intended for a much larger scheme of creation, but by some mishap had strayed to our planet where the Lilliputian hills and trees and living things could never be anything save a contemptible substitute for the majestic objects it was exiled from.

Fully three times the height of a very tall man, it towered nearly a half of its height above the banks as it stood erect on huge hind limbs very simitar to those of a kangaroo; and though hidden by the water very probably there lay below an abnormal length of foot, so marked a feature in the marsupial. But this was no harmless giant of that innocent species; for its upper half bore a striking resemblance to an enormous crocodile, being covered with a yellowish scaly armor, and the short forelimbs, though thick as a man’s thigh, were taloned as a saurian and plainly had no part in the brute’s locomotion, while the frightful head and jaws, though a solid mass of horn and hooked at the extremity of what could only be termed the upper mandible, had the blunt end and rapacious hugeness of a crocodile’s. One could imagine cattle and horses being torn to pieces by that terrible beak as easily as a hawk picks the bones of a chicken.

The whole effect was paralyzing; there was about it such an air of irresistible might, diabolical savagery, and such a sensed mixing of the species, a welding of bird, beast, and reptile, that it deprived the aghast men of the power of rational thought, and all they could conceive in the line of action was an instant flight.

"Quick, Tom!" whispered Elkins hoarsely. “Mount my shoulder; we must

get out of this! I’ll sling the packs up, and you give me a hand — if we’re quick I reckon we may make it.”

As he spoke he leapt in a flash to the top of a near-by heap of rubble that, fallen from the bank, had made a step nearly waist-high up it. In a second Haines had mounted the stooped back, and swung from there to the bank’s crest. Without a fraction of a second’s pause two packs landed beside him as he hung over with arm outstretched and gripped Elkins’ upflung fingers.

Normally both men, were as hard as wire nails and as active as mountain goats, and now speeded up by the appalling sight so close to them the move was completed almost as smoothly and rapidly as the swoop of an eagle on its quarry. Yet none too soon did Elkins’ feet rest on the bank’s crest; for as he tore through the trailing vines the gigantic brute hurtled toward them in a flying leap that covered nearly a third of the space between. The splash of its landing sent a great wave crashing nearly to each bank’s summit, and a slash of spray that drove like hail to the brush above. Just in the flick of an eyelid the two men saw this as they slipped their arms through the pack straps; then they were tearing through the thick, fringing brush, keeping close to each other.

"Make for the wall we dropped down, Tom — we got to get quit of this hellish hole somehow, and I reckon that blasted thing isn’t a climber,” called Elkins as they tore free of the brush and came into

the tall timber. "By ! It’s up and

after us!” he exclaimed as there came a tremendous crash in the tangle behind them. "Beat it for all you're worth! don’t chance hiding,” he admonished urgently.

Possibly they had a couple of hundred yards start of their pursuer; but what was that, when, as they had seen, the creature could cover a hundred feet at a single leap



and a thicket hindered it no more than so much dried grass? Luckily the tangle had been but a fringe of jungle luxuriating in the stronger light seeping through the scantier foliage above the creek; beyond this lay the tall timber where the underbrush was negligible, for the elevation of the plateau forbade the mad riot of vegetation engendered in the steaming plains a thousand miles to the east of it. Of course it was by no means easy going, and one unaccustomed to such gloomy depths would have been hopelessly lost in five minutes, but these men sensed direction as instantly and certainly as any wild creature, and though they made a hundred slight deviations to avoid clumps of lesser growths, yet they held true to the goal they aimed at, and laden as they were with pack and rifle tore ahead at a furious pace.

Crash after crash sounded close behind them, often so close that they feared the next second would bring the terrible thing hurtling on them. But apparently its amazing mode of locomotion was here a hindrance to its progress, for many of the young growths were too stout for even its great bulk to splinter, and too close together for it to penetrate. So very soon it came to the fleeing men that for all the brute’s gigantic leaps and huge thews yet they were holdirig their own and might continue to do so until their strength failed them.

Whether it hunted by sound or scent, it was very certain of every step they had taken; for though several times by abrupt turns and swervings they essayed to evade detection yet the thud and crash followed always behind them. Shortly instinct informed them that they were obliquely closing on the point where they had dropped from the heights above, and also knew that soon the pace must slacken, for their heaving chests and thumping hearts seemed bound in by red-hot iron bands

that every moment were growing tighter and more agonizing.

Had it not been for the heavy packs they would have thought little of such a race, and probably could soon have left the brute far behind them; but the lack of those packs would spell the end of their prospecting and entail hardship that even they would flinch from; as for their rifles, in such a remote spot the loss of them would almost certainly be a death warrant; to such men things like these are sacred and only to be surrendered with life itself.

"We got to let up for a spell soon, Joe!” panted Haines, whose heavy build felt the strain more than his partner’s sparer flesh.

"Hold on, Tom!” encouraged his partner anxiously. "Just to that clump ahead — we’ll slip around it and try out a few pills on this blasted brute — he’s got to slow up coming round it and that will give us a chance to fix his lamps for him!” he cried savagely.

Crash! again came the splintering of young timber as the brute alighted not many hundred feet distant behind them; though save for infrequent more open spaces the giant growths were so thick together that the creature had little chance to display its prodigious leaping ability, and hindered by its vast bulk its progress had been no more rapid than that of the fleeing men.

Putting their last ounce of flagging muscle into it, they dashed to the clump ahead, tore through the thick barrier and raced to its nearest extremity. Behind a massive bole and a wide lane between them they awaited the brute’s coming. Each knew that failure spelt the end of everything for at least one of them, but now their nerves were as calm and steady as the giant growths they pressed tight against; for many a time before had each man’s life lain in the pressing of a trigTHE PRIMEVAL PIT


ger, and so far they had no reason to doubt the efficacy of such a line of argument.

Thud! the thing had hurled itself to the barrier, and for a moment by the harsh rending and straining sounds the listeners knew that it was vainly essaying to force a passage through the stout stems. There was something strangely bird-like in the imbecility of the action, and one might imagine that a giant stupid fowl was there dashing itself against a barrier of wire-netting. But in a moment the beast part of it took the ascendancy and with sudden decision it ceased to assail the barrier, and in a leap came to the lower end, where the way was open; and now there was more than a hint of the reptile in the writhing shuffle of its turning and the manner in which the horrible head flicked from side to side as though undecided which trail of scent to follow. So it shuffled forward a few yards and came right between the waiting men; just caught a glimpse of one of the strangeodored things it had chased — and then the light winked out forever in the shattering report of two rifle shots blended together.

After that, chaos! indescribable cataclysmic unleashed primeval energy spilling its titanic force in convulsions of enormous muscles. Here! there! soaring in huge bounds in every direction, crashing into young growths and smashing them to splinters; ramming great boles with incredible thunderous impact that the very giants shivered under and for a second the battering-ram lay a quivering mountain of flesh below them; again to shoot upward in another convulsion and repeat the performance in another direction.

Now the bird spirit entirely controlled it; for on an infinitely magnified scale of space and time it was duplicating the riot of intense reflex action displayed by a decapitated chicken.

F or some moments the men had their work cut out to avoid the terrific hurtlings of these monstrous convulsions; but shortly the first violence of the outburst had exhausted itself and the intervals grew longer between the spasms, and after one stupendous crash it lay stretched on the ground with its immense muscles bunching and twitching in waves of fastdiminishing virility; and then Haines risked a dash across to his partner.

"Ain’t that the limit!" exclaimed Elkins as the two stood staring at the heaving brute.

"I’m darned if we ain’t fixed him!” cried Haines exultantly.

"Just luck,” replied the other man. "Those pills, or one of them, threaded its gray matter — likely no bigger than a hen’s egg either; but being dumdum they scooped it clean. It’s a stroke of luck that I ain’t stuck on running up against again,” he added thoughtfully.

"What would you reckon it is, Joe?” queried Haines in a tone of awed wonder.

"Search me! — though I did see a picture in the book that wasn’t a bad likeness of the brute, but I don’t call to mind what they named it,” replied Elkins, knitting his brows in an unavailing effort of memory. "But whatever it is, maybe its dad and ma ain’t dead, and like as not it had a mate, and I ain’t dyin’ to meet any of them. So I guess we better go find a way of quitting this nightmare,” he declared emphatically.

"And pass up a fortune?” remonstrated Haines moodily.

"I don’t see no way out of it — we ain’t fixed for tackling such devils. This brute got his by a chance that might not happen again in another hundred years. No, I ain’t scared of taking chances, but it’s crazy to tackle these brutes with pea-shooters like we got. Next time we’ll have the



right dope along with us,” he asserted grimly.

; "Next time!” repeated Haines with surprize and great content. "That’s right — of course there’ll be another day in our calendar. And what we got pouched will give some style to that outfit.”

"Sure, we’ll have hardware that can throw an ounce ball through armor plate, explosive shells to tickle ’em, and a case or two of dynamite — oh yes! we’ll have the dope all right,” agreed Elkins savagely. "But now we’d better get out of this as quick as we can beat it — though I reckon the brutes keep most to the waterways, and likely there’s other lakes hid away in the forest where grub is handy for them — still keep your eyes skinned; maybe I’m wrong.”

After a moment’s delay while they listened intently for any sound that might betray that the great uproar had disturbed other frightful life in the vicinity, and failing to catch the faintest murmur in the absolute stillness that surrounded them, the two men picked up the packs they had hastily discarded just before the monster came between them, and with a last stare of fierce loathing at the monstrous carcass still pulsing with immense primeval virility, they left a scene that looked as though a battery of field guns had recently swdpt it.

M idway in the afternoon they were back at the spot where they had first descended from the surrounding desolation. For miles they had followed the great wall westward and come on no spot that offered the faintest hope of ascent. Always the sheer heights rose in frowning bluffs that nothing lacking wings could surmount; and at last in despair they had retraced their steps to scan again the feasibility of what looked like their only hope of escape.

"I dunno,” said Elkins slowly, "but it

might be possible — save for that twenty foot in the middle,” he added, pointing to a spot about half-way up, where the face of the bluff for a dozen feet seemed as smoothly shining as a pane of glass and not the slightest indication of a crevice or a prominence was visible.

"One could give another a lift from the ledge below it,” replied Haines with no great surety of tone. "But the first up couldn’t stir a finger to help the one below until he had climbed another dozen feet.”

The fact was patent, for just above the glassy surface lay a stretch of sheer bluff where it would mean instant disaster for one ascending to endeavor to aid another. Apart from this the ascent was just possible to men with the iron nerves and muscles possessed by the two surveying it.

For a moment his partner was silent, apparently lost in deep consideration of the problem; then he observed abruptly: "It ain’t no use foolin’ about it; there’s a show for one to make it — but not a chance in the world for the other. One of us must stop while the other beats it across the hills for a length of rope to fish him out with. I don’t see no way out of it. For we got to move quick — the grub will just hold out to make that trip, and to go hunting around any lake down here is no more than plain suicide,” he added coolly.

"But Joe,” Haines expostulated, "ten days is the least one could make Arenas in, and that’s the nearest settlement. That means twenty days for one of us alone in this damned hole!” And he was silent as he imagined the experience.

"Well, what of it? There’s ledges around here where one could lie safe enough night times, and keeping hid daytime I reckon one could last out that long. Anyway we got to chance it, for there ain’t a single liana to be found this high up,” said Elkins, summing the situation briefly.

THE PRIMEVAL PIT


"Yes,” said, Haines very quietly, "and who do you reckon is stopping?” .

"Why, 1 am!” replied Elkins sharply.

"You’re wrong, Joe, I am,” stated Haines as simply as a god might deliver an unalterable fiat. Elkins stared half fiercely, half whimsically at his partner.

"Of course a stick of dynamite couldn’t budge you once you got your mule’s mind set, but here’s the answer!” said he with a half smile as stooping he picked from the rubble a couple of small fragments. "See, one’s quartz, other’s granite. You do the picking, and the guy who gets the quartz, he stops. Ain’t that square?” he queried gravely.

"I guess so,” agreed Haines unwillinglyAt once the stones were swirled around in a hat by Elkins, who then with a quick move turned it over on a flat slab, slid his hand underneath and withdrew the clenched fist with a fragment inside it.

"Now, which is which?” he asked quietly.

"White,” replied Haines touching the clenched fingers, which thereupon fell open — and on to the slab tinkled a little granite fragment.

"That’s that,” said Elkins as cheerfully as though he had won a lottery. "Now we’ll get busy; sooner you beat it the better. Wouldn’t tote more than gun, billy, and grub; take the fishline up with you and I’ll come down and hook them on,” said he, referring to the stout line that lies in the pack of every prospector.

And after a little argument over the division of the beans, wherein Haines had his way by simply stating that "if you send up an ounce over a third of them I’ll dump the lot over the edge,” and arranging that whether he found a way up or not Elkins would return to this spot before the twentieth day, the two men stepped to the point where they had agreed ascent was most feasible.

At the foot of the wall Haines turned with troubled eyes and growled, "Say, Joe, won’t you let me off this? If we kept on going there must be some break in the blasted wall.”

"Did it seem that way from up there?” queried Elkins, shaking his head. And Haines could not deny but everywhere the towering battlements had appeared as an unbroken line of sheer precipice, not in frequently more lofty than the crest they stood on.

"Curse the hellish hole!” broke out Haines harshly. "It’s bewitched! Just

thirty feet of rope or hide would ”

and then he was dumb as a light of immense wonder swept into his eyes. Then suddenly he was laughing, deeply and joyfully though almost noiselessly.

"What’s the joke?” queried Elkins in surprize.

"If we ain’t a couple of kids in white nighties!” cried Haines contemptuously though very contentedly. "Why, there’s more line than we can use lying not ten minutes from us right now!”

"Line! Where?” snapped Elkins.

"Why, the underside of that great brute — isn’t there many a thirty-foot length of hide on it? — strong enough I reckon to swing an elephant aloft,” declared Haines.

"Well, I’m damned! Come on!” was all Elkins said at all printable.

“TWTEXT time we’ll shin up and down

-1-^1 a rope ladder,” said Haines as he laid aside the knotted lengths of greasy rawhide with which they had just hauled up their gear from a ledge forty feet below them. "I ain’t stuck on this human fly business — with maybe any minute a poke in the spine from some win devil.”

"I own the same notion gave me the cold shivers as we hung by our eyelashes on some of those ticklish places. Yes, I



guess next time we’ll be fixed for a little straight talk with those hellish things,” agreed Elkins very heartily as he stood watching the approaching night draw its dusky veil across the still forest-covered depths.

And then from afar there sped through the gloom a cry, so great, so bestial, so seeped in frightful emotion, that it

seemed the whole universe must be listening aghast at the immensity of its virile ferocity and utter devilishness.

“The world in the making,” muttered Elkins the scientist.

"A stick of dynamite will shut your warbling,” growled Haines savagely; and then the two turned to seek their night’s shelter.

fund • From ?UCGOtM

5. THE BELLS

Year after year I heard that faint, far ringing Of deep-toned bells on the black midnight wind; . Peals from no steeple I could ever find,

But strange, as if across some great void winging.

I searched my dreams and memories for a clue. And thought of all the chimes my visions carried; Of quiet Innsmouth, where the white gulls tarried Around an ancient spire that once I knew.

Always perplexed I heard those far notes falling,

Till one March night the bleak rain splashing cold Beckoned me back through gateways of recalling To elder towers where the mad clappers tolled. They tolled — but from the sunless tides that pour Through sunken valleys on the sea’s dead floor.

TaJes- of- the-Wereuiolf .

Clan-*

MUNN

BYHWARNG

2. The Master Fights

1. The Wreck of the Santa Ysabel

"The weather, though it is June, is as wild as December. No one remembers such a season. It is the more strange since we are on the business of the Lord, and some reason there must be for what has befallen us.”

(Letter of Duke of Medina Sidonia to Philip II, King of Spain, from Corunna.)

"God caused the winds to blow and they were scattered !”

(Inscription on English medals, struck to commemorate the Armada’s defeat.)

A LL day the shot-tom Santa Ysabel had wallowed down the Channel, *“■ her deck, ill-manned, a welter of corpses. Now as night drew on, the galleon, with her sister ships of the once great Armada, prepared to stand and fight.

The engagement was brief and deadly.

Again the small craft of the harrying English outmaneuvered the unwieldy Spanish vessels. Again a raking discharge of chain shot and a hail of balls from sakers, falcons, and bastard culverins spread destruction along the three decks of the towering galleon. The scuppers ran red again at the discharge as though the fabric of the vessel itself was bleeding.

It was the year of our Lord, 1588. The day, August 9th, and the scene, the Battle of Gravelines.

It had been a running fight; Medina Sidonia had hoped till the last to connect with the Duke of Parma and to be reinforced, but fire-ships and gales had scattered his fleet and the deadly fire of




the swift English privateers had mowed down the soldiers on his unwieldy troop-ships until from being overmanned, the galleons were in danger of running ashore for lack of able hands.

Far from Parma, the Battle of Gravelines was in progress. The eagle formation which had been of such value in the Battle of Lepanto was still maintained. Heavy galleons for the body, lighter ones, including galleasses, for the wings, and troop-ships making up the tail of the fighting bird.

Against Hawkins — Achines the Spanish called him with revilings — and Drake — El Draque, or the Dragon — this clumsy formation had beaten along intact, save for the loss of here and there a straggler that lagged too far behind. Now the two powers were locked in the final battle of the ten days’ flight. All that remained to fight were forty ships after the fire-ships had scattered the fleet; the greater part were far to leeward and driving toward the banks of Dunkirk.

The English fire went through and through the Santa Y sab el, when the cannons and culverins spoke, with force enough to shatter a rock. No ship had struck its colors, though the English fleet had lain yard-arm to yard-arm, and the Spaniards had endured five hours of being torn to pieces by cannon-shot.

At three hours before sunset the firing had blended into a continuous roar of sound. Deafened gunners served the small demi-culverins and falconets, which were all that remained of the Santa Ysabel’s armament. From the maintop nothing could be made out through the smoke, but below in the pall, pinnace and barque drew near the galleon, discharged their broadsides and gave place to the next.

Here and there a Spanish fly-boat, a gunboat manned with oars, slid through

the fighting, met a pinnace and sank it, but these now were very few.

There was no flinching on the decks of the Santa Ysabel. While the air shook with the roar of the artillery, priests went up and down under the hottest fire, crucifix in hand, confessing and absolving the dying.

To the patter of drum-beats and a cry of "Saint George for Merrie England!” a privateer drew dose and lodged a volley in the galleon’s hull. A hoarse cheer went up from dry throats when a coughing roar and a burst of white flame showed that the Spanish magazine had exploded.

Had it not been for the fact that the powder was nearly gone, that would have been the end of the Santa Ysabel at once, but although crippled she did not sink, drifting with fire showing through her ports and swathed in black clouds of smoke.

"Boarding party, away!” rang out from below, as the doughty little bark prepared to close with the giant, but before this could take place there came an interruption.

From behind the flaming galleon, a galleass, like a many-legged water-bug, came striding out in all its pomp of swinging oars and engaged the bark. Banners flew free and gay as they met, but a well-directed chain shot brought low the Spanish standard and a storm of balls felled the mainmast, along with a fallen sail that billowed over the rowing pit and which was straightway set aflame with a pot of wildfire.

A second volley crashed into the galleass between wind and water, and with a burst of bubbles and frenzied screams the craft heeled over and went down, taking with her soldiers, sailors and two hundred chained and helpless galley slaves.

This short and decisive battle had disW. T — 5

THE MASTER FIGHTS


tracted the attention of the English from the Santa Ysabel, a mistake that was brought to their attention when their sails flapped uselessly beneath the mountainous side of the galleon.

Red-hot cannon-balls now fell from the heights into the hold of the bark and the galleon limped along after her consorts, still burning in isolated spots, but leaving the bark behind her; a pillar of fire which presently subsided into the cloud-darkened sea.

Before sunset the wind rose, the firing ceased, and the smoky canopy drifted away.

Far behind the mass of the Spanish fleet, the Santa Ysabel’ s condition was desperate. The soldiers, though few, outnumbered the seamen and snatched control, chose their own course and forced the pilot to steer where they pleased. The natural result was, that after a miserable night, spent in attending to the wounded, throwing overboard the dead and examining into the injuries of the vessel, they had lagged behind so far that the fleet was barely in sight.

There was no fresh water, and no powder save what was in the loaded guns on deck and a few muskets below. A hundred and four men walked the deck, haggard, desperate and hopeless. They were entering the North Sea, but at present were in water that was shoaling every moment, so that they could see the yellow foam where the waves broke on the banks. The English hung, menacing and grim, a mile on the weather quarter, but drawing more water than the galleon, they did not advance.

About noon, after prayers, the wind shifted to the southwest, and with the remaining rags of sail, the Santa Ysabel wore away from the shallows. The English followed as she plunged forward into the North Sea, but seemed satisfied W T— 6

to let the elements finish the work they had begun.

Two days later they passed the mouth of the Forth, and the dogging fleet turned back. No nearer the tatters of the Armada, the Santa Ysabel sailed on, her crew reduced by half.

A ghastly proof of the suffering and famine ahead in the fleet was given the followers in the morning. The mutilated galleon sailed on through the forenoon, through the carcasses of many hundreds of mules and horses that had been flung overboard in the night to save water for the men.

The Santa Ysabel kept up the forlorn pursuit, in a rising gale, as far as the Orkneys, passed those surf-lashed coasts in weather that steadily grew more wild, and fell in with two other galleons in as ill case as herself, learning from them that the fleet had separated, each vessel for itself. The three passed down the wild west coasts of the Hebrides, were scattered again in a furious storm, and with fourteen still living, the Santa Ysabel beat on toward Ireland.

The other two were splintered on the iron cliffs of Connaught and those of their crews that escaped the skenes and axes of the wild Irish, tempted by plunder, were shot or hanged on the spot by the English troops garrisoned there.

I T was night around the Santa Ysabel.

Away to port, somewhere in the darkness, a flare of ruddy light lit up the surging clouds. Seconds after, a rumbling came sullenly over the dark water. Somewhere, a commander, rather than be taken or wrecked upon the inhospitable coast, had thrown a torch into his powder magazine and gone with all his dreams of conquest.

Leon Gunnar leaned on the four-footthick bulwark, famine -weakened and thirsty, wondering if those unknown dead



were happier in the sea or were more at rest than they had been before the crash of exploding powder had reft them of their earthly problems. The doubt, hanging in his mind, had kept him for days from ending his misery in the sea.

Long days and nights of dread, without hope, the galleon had driven along, fever delirium speaking in hellish screams and oaths from below. Leon was grateful that the ship was free from that horror at last.

Low in the water, a seam having opened a few hours before, the survivors floated toward the Irish coast. Leon debated incuriously the probable mode of his death. Would they sink, before they were smashed against the rocks of Sligo Bay? He hardly cared; the end was the same in either event, it seemed.

The officers had long been, gone, and many of the crew had died in the hopeless struggle for home, died from sheer exhaustion and overwork. Four days, a mate had been captain of the galleon. For four days and nights he had not slept. On the morning of the fifth day, Leon recalled, the mate had looked red-eyed into the rising sun, had smiled mysteriously at some one he thought he saw there, and mounting the bulwark, had stepped open-armed toward the sunrise and the Friend whose name was — Death.

Far behind in the waste of tossing water shone a following light, twinkling, waving, unsteady as though it winked and signaled at the iron-bound lantern upon the Santa Ysabel’s carved high poop.

Leon ran back, lifted the lantern and waved it from side to side. The thought of a following Spanish vessel was dispelled, when faint and dulled by distance came the sound of an English cheer above the slap and spatter of the driving spume along the high unwieldy stem.

Leon let the lantern fall into the sea

and ran forward to where the weary men slaved at the pumps. Beaten by the howling wind and driving rain, they made all sail possible, and slid a trifle faster toward the deadly coast.

When morning came, it found the Santa Ysabel all but a derelict hulk, another mast carried away and only a rag of canvas giving steerage way. Terribly near and menacing spun a pursuing pinnace, a cockleshell of a boat, but filled with dauntless hearts. Its captain, too late to join the Gravelines battle, had sworn to turn back only as master of a galleon, and at last spied his long-sought quarry, but a quarter of a league away. Steadily the little Vindictive bore down upon the wallowing titan and an hour after sunrise opened fire. Her third shot, unanswered from the Santa Ysabel, smashed through the galleon’s rudder and crippled her, like a hamstrung elephant.

The Spanish vessel swung about and lay in the trough of the seas, careening wildly, foam spurting over the stumps of masts.

The English howled and drew close. In the melee, a round shot had hulled the Santa Ysabel, adding a new menace to the surviving invaders. Through this rent, water poured into the hold from a myriad widening seams, now opened, now closed by the strain of the twisting seas.

The Vindictive drew alongside, and a sailor roped high on the single mast, with a dozen or more muskets beside him in the cask that did duty as a fighting-top, picked off one by one the sweating heartsick Spaniards that manned the pumps. From different quarters of the deck, a spatter of shots answered, but none took effect, while the replying fire shortly ceased, for their powder at last was exhausted.

Suspecting a ruse, the pinnace sheered off, sending a chain shot screaming

THE MASTER FIGHTS


through a yard, which fell, crushing two and hiding Leon Gunnar in a fold of canvas. He felt himself wrapped in a crushing tangle of cordage that bit and stung like steel whips; a bight of the cord tightened about his throat and short indeed was the painful pressure, for shots, cries, shrieking wind and booming seas melted together into a solemn bass organ note and silence and darkness shot with fire.

Again the English drove close, while the sailor at the masthead, in a wreath of smoke, swung a hissing missile about his head and hurled it upon the galleon’s deck. The earthen pot of wildfire broke and let loose its devouring contents, which flamed blue and green but quickly sputtered out beneath a douche of sand wet with vinegar that had been prepared in expectation of such an attack.

Then, to the surprize of all, a quick shift of wind and a towering sea conspired together and smashed the Vindictive, all too near, against the rugged side of the Santa Y sab el, crushing in the weaker vessel.

A few of the English, clinging to the scrollwork, the gunports and the chains, made their way to the bulwarks. Rushing water dragged three of them away but five reached the Spanish deck.

Nine bloody haggard men, last of the Santa Y sab el’s hundreds, battle insanity in their red-rimmed eyes, met them as they came. Dagger met dirk, a musket exploded; a Spaniard choked as the teeth of a dying Englishman met in his jugular. His heels drummed once or twice on the splintered deck, then only the slap of the waves was to be heard on the sinking galleon.

I T WAS night again, when a giant wave broke through a hole in the bulwarks, sloshed in and out of the scuppers and wet icily Gunnar’s covering. Gasping for

breath, and stung by the salt in a number of abrasions, the young man tore himself free with the help of his dirk.

Loose, he could see at once that the ship was far gone. It heaved and pitched lower in the water to the tune of rumbling below, as the wash of the deep currents in the hold carried empty barrels and floating cases to and fro. The tiller swung idly and the deck was strewn with bodies. Swiftly he examined all, but found no signs of life and consigned them to the seething waves.

A toy of the elements, the doomed Santa Ysabel careened in the choppy sea, a derelict hulk drifting near an inhospitable coast. The gale and rain had stopped, but clouds hid the moon from sight.

However, Leon had no need of moonlight to trace the outline of the shore. There, as far as eye could see, beacon fires flamed from horizon to horizon, like a glittering necklace of diamonds upon black velvet.

There also, men, wild Irish kerns, clothed in hide and raw meat eaters, danced about, armed with spiked poles, waiting for their fellow Christians to come tossing in, that they might slay and slay and slay, until the arm grew weary.

A light wind, rising again, was chill and cut through his soggy garments. Leon shivered and looked about for something to throw across his shoulders.

Near by, a black heap appeared to be a cloak flung haphazard over an overturned keg, but as he touched it a movement startled him and he drew back. Beneath the cloak crouched a little dark man!

Leon noticed that his eyes sparkled strangely as the fellow spoke and his teeth were long and sharp. His hair was gray and stringy upon his head, his eyebrows joined upon his forehead, forming a continuous bar of hair, lending him a wild and sinister appearance.



"Ah, friend, well met! We are alone at last!” *

Leon harked back in his memory and found nothing there that recalled the presence of this man aboard the Santa Y sab el.

"No?” said the little man, as though in answer to Leon’s silent question. "You have not seen me before, it is true, but I have been near to you all your life. I watched over you when you were born; during your youth and when you first planned to reach Scotland. Tell me, what is that about your neck?”

Leon felt a peculiar antipathy to this strange man and made surly answer. "If you know so much, you know that also.” He eyed the stranger, coldly.

"Ey! Ey! That I do,” the dwarf cackled. "Is it not a part of a certain key to a certain tomb in Blois? And are you not in search of its mate in Scotland?”

In spite of himself, Leon was surprized, but even this seemed to be the culmination of his long journeys. Curiously, he inspected the dark dwarf, but with recognition and no fear.

"I think I know you. You are the persecutor of my people. Arch-demon, you are the Master! You are here to prevent my success, I know. Have you come to kill me also?”

The Master nodded, a saturnine smile exposing his white fang-like teeth.

"It is your turn to go, unless you choose to live!”

Leon laughed.

"By daylight,” he said, "the ship will strike upon the rocks and that will be the end of both of us. I do not believe that even you can escape such a sea. You can neither save nor harm me now!”

The Master drew himself up and faced into the wind, which had increased to a gale while they had been talking. Mumbling to himself, he performed odd gyrations with his arms, ending with palms pressing against the growing tempest in an attitude of command. The wind dropped, became a breeze and finally lessened to a mere puff of air.

Above,, the clouds still raced along, but around the sinking galleon lay an area of utter peace and quiet where the waves were low, and no wind blew. _

"Now do you doubt the Master’s power?”

Gunnar shook his head.

"More I have done to bring you here. 1 aided your progress to Corunna and implanted in your mind the suggestion that you take ship there for England. I caused the storms to rise that sent the Armada to seek shelter in that port! My will alone has broken the sea-power of Spain! Delays, winds, niggardly equipment, 1 fomented them all! Because you were with the fleet, I had the power to smash the Armada and it is ruined forever.

"Poor, timorous Sidonia! Spain will blame him for the loss of sixty-five ships and twenty thousand men, but the Master met his fleet and fought on the side of the English, although they too are of the accursed race of men! The glory is the Master’s and Sidonia will never meet Parma now!”

"What is it,” Gunnar asked calmly, "that such a murderer wants with me?”

"Your body after death, to do with as it suits my pleasure, and with your consent!” answered die Master without hesitation. "If you will promise me to be my slave, I will save your life now and you shall have until the time of your natural death to live as you ordinarily would. I reserve this condition only, that if you call upon my help or visit that tomb in Blois, then you forfeit your days of life beyond thirty years from now!”

Gunnar made a rapid mental calculation. He had but just passed twenty-one. Death seemed certain in a few hours,

THE MASTER FIGHTS


without some unforeseen aid. A sinking vessel lay beneath his feet, an unknown shore ahead that seemed alive with savages. Even then, he could hear their eery cries like lonely devils wandered far from their home in the pits. Across the heaving seas the sounds came faintly to him in the ominous unnatural silence around the galleon. The prospect was dismal. He shivered.

He might live sixty years in the normal course of life. Gunnar made, to himself, a solemn vow to keep away from France and to avoid ever calling upon the Master.

He turned to his enemy, who, smiling slyly, appeared to understand his decision.

"I promise,” he said, "to serve you after my death and I acknowledge the conditions of the pact.”

"So be it!” cried the little man and whistled through his hands.

Instantly the wind whooped through the shreds of rigging and the waves rose high again. But above the howling of the elements, Leon Gunnar heard, as he hurried for shelter, the high ululation of the Master’s cackling laugh, and shivered again, but with more than cold.

Something within him warned that he had been a fool and queried with an inward jeering as to the meaning behind the promise he had made.

T he half-light which precedes morning finally came, and Leon, after a night of terrors in the demolished cabin, issued forth to see the Master, swathed in his long black cloak, leaning on the bulwark.

The Master smiled and beckoned him to approach.

"We are to be friends now, Gunnar,” he said, with an underlying fierce humor. "What do you think of this?”

Leon caught his breath at the sight before him. Thev were verv near a sandy

beach, where broke a violent sea. Two galleons were pounding themselves to pieces among surrounding rocks. The forecastle of a third was jammed between rocks that held it partially together, although drenched and groaning in the seas that swept over it. Leon could see men upon the wreckage that waved pitifully at the Santa Y sab el as she lurched nearer as though their efforts could thrust her away.

The surf and beach were dotted with bodies and the Irish were down in hundreds, stripping the dead, knocking some of the living on the head and leaving others naked to perish of the cold.

Then, with a grinding crash, the Santa Y sab el drove into the wreckage and the remaining mast went by the board.

At the same time, the forecastle of the other galleon was swept from its perch and foundered.

Leon had no remembrance of swimming, but found himself on the shore among the howling men. He had a tight grasp of the Master’s hand and the black cloak was about them both.

"Take care!” growled the Master. "They can not see you while you are with me. The cloak of invisibility proteas us both.”

Boats, an upturned tender, hatches, spars and cordage mingled with the dead upon the shingle.

As they passed along the edge of the water, a man came in upon a drifting scuttle-board, his leg badly bleeding from a blow by a spar in the surf. Leon recognized in him a Don Cuellar, commander of the San Pedro; a man for whose valor the younger man felt a deep admiration.

"Let us go along with him,” he said to the Master and they followed.

A miserable figure, the Irish, who were plundering the well-dressed, took little



notice of him. He crawled along until he came to some rushes, where he lay and hid himself.

"He is safe there,” said the Master; "we will see him again.”

They passed on through the wreckage and entered a lane that led up toward the hills. Held close within the Master's cloak, Leon passed unseen within a few feet of the nearest fire and those who squabbled around it. The sound of their alien voices came faint to his ear as though they were far away.

A naked, wild-faced, hairy man ran toward him as he strode on beside the Master. The youth caught his breath, sure that he was seen, but the savage veered as he came near and rushed by, waving a bit of pointed stick, red and dripping; his hand bloody to the elbow.

They threaded their way through the cordon of fires. Near one, where the natives had dragged him, lay a naked graybeard, whom Leon recognized as the chief gunner of the Rata Coronada. As they approached, he seemed to sense the coming of a compatriot and raised himself on an elbow, feebly croaking "Agua! Agua!” from salt-cracked lips.

A virago, tending a pot, struck him down with a heavy iron ladle, so that he fell across the feet of one who appeared to be some sort of a sub-chief, as he wore a pair of tight-fitting knee-breeches and a goatskin jacket open in front. This man snarled and kicked the gunner’s body away.

The Spaniard cried out, as his hair began to burn, for he lay now upon glowing embers.

The sub-chief seized a large rock and coolly, as though it was a matter of familiar practise, beat out the brains of the tortured gunner.

Leon’s soul seemed to turn steel within him at the horrible sight. Freeing his dirk with his right hand and clutching

the Master’s scraggy wrist with his left, they leapt toward the fire. As they neared the light of the flames, the Master stopped, seemingly in pain. Leon stared in wonder, then left his protection, raced to the fire and sprang like a cat upon the back of the murderer.

It was a second’s work to yank the shaggy head back and draw his keen blade across that bronzed bull-throat!

The throng shouted at this tattered, sea-soaked apparition that had materialized before them, out of nothing. Blood spurted hissing on the flames and the subchief fell without a cry into the fire across the body of his victim.

The pot overturned and sent a flood of scalding broth over the old hag, and in the excitement and confusion Leon ran back several steps into the shadows, and by the Master’s side, invisible to all but him, they were both again unseen.

The Master laughed for the third time. This was a protege much to his liking. Hand in hand. Master and pupil marched inland from the coast.

Because of the Gunnars, the Master had crossed the Channel. A new hunting-ground was before him, and the first kill was satisfying to the enemy of all things human.

He was still laughing softly to himself when the sun rose beyond the hills.

Leon was suddenly aware that he was again alone. With the first ray of sunlight, the Master had vanished as mysteriously as he had appeared aboard the wrecked galleon.

2. The Bug-Wolves of Castle Manglana

O N the battlements of Castle Manglana, Leon Gunnar stood, leaning on a musket and gazing pensively across the deep placid waters of Lough Erne.

It was late in October, in the year of our Lord, 1588.

THE MASTER FIGHTS


Manglana stood on a promontory projecting far out into the broad lake, whose ripples lapped against the base of the castle wall.

No boats plied Lough Erne; all had been sunk a week before, when O’Rourke, the owner of the castle, had retreated with his family and retainers into the mountains, leaving Gunnar and eight other Spaniards to defend themselves as best they might against a force of eighteen hundred English soldiers. These had been collected in Dublin and were led by Ireland’s Lord Deputy, whose orders were to scour the West country and kill all fugitives from the thirteen galleons which were wrecked upon that part of the coast.

A swallow skimmed by and left a trail of widening circles on the still water. Leon sighed and followed it with his eyes, wishing that he too had wings with which to leave this wild land far behind. How soon would he flee to Scotland and his kindred there!

A crack of a musket and a jubilant yell broke into his revery and he turned to see a bearded man, dressed in the saffron mantle of an Irish gallowglass, dancing about the battlements.

"By’r Lady,” he shouted, "I got the dirty spy that time! See him kicking in the marsh?”

"Well done, Cuellar!” Leon applauded, "we can’t waste ammunition. Every shot must find an English heart!”

Cuellar became serious and looked around to see if any one was listening.

"Boy!” he whispered, "you don’t know how true that is. I was prowling about in the powder room today and I found that three of those powder kegs O’Rourke left us were some that had been picked up on the beaches after the wrecks!”

"Well?” queried Gunnar.

"No! 111! Water soaked in somehow. We’ve got a half-keg left and a dozen

muskets to fight an army with. Senora Cuellar will be finding another man, I’m afraid.”

"Don’t feel low,” Leon urged. "Keep up your spirits, sir. Time is fighting for us too, you know. The English don’t know our strength, and a couple of heavy rains will drown them out.”

He pointed toward the landward side of the promontory. Far enough from the castle so that musket fire could not reach the defenders, lay the camp of the English, on such high ground as existed in the low swampland. Now and then some foolhardy soldier would leave the camp and try to find a way through the swamps and effect an entrance into the castle, but after the first few attacks in force had ended in disorder and bloody defeat, the English had sat down in their camps and commenced a policy of waiting until starvation drove the Spaniards into their hands.

With food for two months this did not disturb the besieged greatly, but the failing supply of powder was an event of the first importance. Once the English learned that a man might penetrate to the castle walls without being fired upon, others would follow.

“Ah, Gunnar,” answered Cuellar, "you don’t understand the feelings of a father. All of us here have got families waiting for us, but you. When you watch your own children growing up and see the look in their mother’s eyes, you won’t feel like waiting for some other man to step into your boots! Almost a year, we’ve been away, and no one home knows that we still live, or where!

"You came ashore on that galleon that smashed into mine on the rocks of Sligo Bay, you said. Do you remember that burned monastery and the twelve Spaniards hanging dead from the rafters in the nave? But for God’s grace we might have dangled there.”



Leon nodded vigorously. "And the blessed saints all tumbled on the ground beneath their feet! Almighty! I can see them yet!”

"It was horrible!” agreed Cuellar; "and only a miracle could have saved us from those madmen that plundered the wrecks. I shall remember in my prayers for ever the chief that saved my life.”

Leon spoke up bitterly.

"You don’t think he did it because he loves Spaniards, do you? He hates England as he does hellfire and only gave us shelter because we are enemies of the English. If he had cared anything about us, he would have helped us get back home instead of leaving us here.”

"True,” agreed Cuellar, "but we are alive and it was a blessed miracle that allowed us to reach his protection!”

He crossed himself fervently, and Gunnar, in disgust, returned to his post of duty on the eastern wall.

Only too well, Leon knew that the saints had had nothing to do with the bringing of himself, Cuellar and a young naval officer to the dubious protection of Castle Manglana. An unseen companion had journeyed with the three; one powerful to protect those whom he wished against any foe! And he, a dread enemy of mankind, was self-called — the Master!

C uellar shouted down the stairway to some one below.

“Gomez, tell Ramon to bring up another flask of powder and three more muskets. Send up Diego, Enrique and Rodriguez. I think those English frogs are going to come paddling out here again!”

Gunnar ran back across the flat roof again. It was true that an odd commotion was taking place in the camp, hardly perceptible in the growing dusk.

Then, far across the flat marshes, arose a puff of white smoke; an eery whistle

rose to a scream which steadily mounted, passed overhead, and a heavy missile plunged sullenly into the lake.

The echoes were still in flight between the cliffs of Lough Erne, when a thud shook the castle and both Gunnar and Cuellar felt a slight sensation of giddiness as though the firm structure rocked beneath them. A dismal wail came from below and the two watchers gazed into each other’s eyes with dawning comprehension and fear.

A man staggered up the stairs and came out on the roof. His hair was crisped and smoking, the beard gone from one side of his face, and sparks ran to and fro on his charred clothing. He saw Cuellar and came straight toward him, saluting the tacitly recognized leader of the garrison.

"Madre de Dios, Gomez, speak!” Cuellar cried. "What has happened?”

"Ramon,” said the man, with difficulty, his eyes rolling as he choked, "went — into — the magazine — with — a lighted torch !” and he fell, still at the position of salute, across Cuellar’s feet.

“That finishes us.” Cuellar looked at Leon. "The English have dragged a cannon up at last, and now our powder is gone!”

Leon thrust a hand inside the fallen man’s goatskin jacket.

"Sir, Gomez is dead,” he announced.

“I expected that,” came the hopeless reply. "Come, let us see how many yet live.”

As the two left the roof, another distant report sounded from the camp and Gunnar turned back.

“Go. I will watch here, and call if there is an attack.”

"Very well,” replied Cuellar. " Adios , friend. This is the end!” And he disappeared in the billows of smoke pouring up the stairway.

THE MASTER FIGHTS


"It is not the end!” murmured an unctuous voice in Gunnar’s ear.

He recognized the voice at once. The Master was making his usual nightly visit, whenever Gunnar was alone.

"Are you utterly merciless?” Gunnar burst out, passionately. "Is there no pity, no humanity in you? Beast! Fiend! Devil! You disgrace the name of man! You are a monster! In the name of every holy saint, I plead with you to leave me and let me die in peace!”

A cold ferocity gleamed for a second in the Master's eyes.

"Do not be misled by the body I happen to wear just now! I have other semblances that might surprize you! I am not a man and neither am I a beast. You will soon learn that I am not human! As for mercy and pity, I had them long ago, but they were stolen from me. However, I did not come to tell you this, but to show you a way out and perhaps to help those who are with you.”

Gunnar’s face lighted and he took a step closer to the odd creature who held him in his power, by a pact of servitude, pledged aboard a sinking galleon earlier in the year.

"What is it?” he urged. "Tell me quickly!”

"Did you know that tonight is Hallowe’en? The one night in all the year, next to Walpurgis night, when it is easiest for a man to become a wolf from sunset to sunrise?”

Gunnar chuckled. "You may have wonderful powers and I admit that you can make yourself invisible and can lull storms, but no man can become a wolf! That is only an Irish and French superstition.”

"As I have already told you, I am not a man. You are too ignorant to understand what I am. If you had traveled more you would know that what you term a superstition has been known and believed in all countries and all ages. /, the Master, am the one who began that knowledge upon this earth! Strip off your clothes and we will see what can be done on Hallowe’en night!”

Gunnar hesitated and the Master urged him sternly. "Strip!” he again commanded, and the Spaniard, without moving his eyes from that twisted face, began to do as he was told.

The red eyes of the Master fixed the young man like stone, as he moved nearer.

"I am giving you a, choice,” he said slowly. "I promised you, upon the Santa Ysabel, your full term of life if you bound yourself to me after death and but thirty years if you found it necessary to call upon my help. Choose now, if you are willing to become a thing that will scatter the English from their camp like leaves before the blast! If you will it so, I shall cause such storms to arise tomorrow that they will flood the marshes and save the lives of your friends. If not — ■ you can see them die tomorrow when the soldiers take the castle, and be saved by me, knowing all your life that you could have rescued your friends and would not!”

Leon Gunnar considered. He had no one to care for, or to care if he lived or died. Thirty years of life, at least, lay before him according to the pact, in which something might arise that would defeat the Master’s plans. Then, too, here was a promise that the lives of Cuellar and the rest would be spared. Senora Cuellar — the children — Spain and love — and sunshine in weary hearts!

"I wish to fight and I ask your help,” he replied.

"Thirty years then, my lad,” clucked the black dwarf and stooped his head over Gunnar’s arm.

The young man felt a sharp pain in the hollow of his elbow. The Master



backed away and threw an evil-smelling liquid upon him, muttering a low incantation as he did so.

Then — agony unspeakable, as though every bone in the Spaniard’s body had been violently wrenched from its socket and as violently reset!

He fell to the roof, crying out in pain. Was it fancy or truth that the cries sounded like yelps and howls instead of words? His nose seemed strangely long; in fact, it was no longer a nose, but a snout, and rolling there, his hands came within his vision and he howled again. They were not hands — they were (could it be possible?) the hairy paws of a wolf!

He felt a kick in the ribs. The dwarf seemed very wroth.

"Be quiet, you fool! You will have the others here! Watch now.”

The Master drew his black cloak tight about himself and leaned far forward. Gunnar meant to gasp, but it sounded like a low whine of surprize, when he saw that suddenly the black cloak was no longer cloth, but black hair!

Then the Master fell forward, his scrawny limbs shrinking, his face changing frightfully, and two tailless wolves stood side by side upon the roof of Castle Manglana.

Gunnar felt a strange wild thrill in his veins. He seemed to have imbibed something of the Master’s proud, alien spirit. He was no longer human, but a beast and felt as a wild predatory animal should.

Man was his enemy: should he not kill? Below, in the castle, were men!

He stalked, stiff-legged, over to the open entrance. His hackles lifted and foam drooled from his avid jaws. Man smell here was strong! He took one step forward and howled long and dismally.

He would have hurled himself down at his former friends, had not a chill command halted him and he stood still, trembling violently.

There was nothing left of his former life. Now he was but a machine meant for one purpose only, and that purpose was to kill as long as he was able to fight. In his mind surged the red tide of murder.

The black wolf was regarding him with grim humor. "You will do,” he announced, and the words made themselves felt without sound in the gray wolf’s brain. "More men are over here. Follow me!”

T he black beast loped across the roof and sprang over a low opening in the battlements. Into the lake the gray wolf plunged after the leader and struck out for shore.

By the time they reached it, the sky was covered with clouds, mysteriously having appeared where ten moments earlier not one was to be seen.

The beasts sank belly-deep in the ooze and struggled to a firmer footing. There was a musty smell from green-scummed pools filled with rotting leaves and small dead things. A drizzling rain spat and hissed in the slimy water.

"This will keep our prey under shelter,” thought the gray wolf and the black bent his head as though words had been uttered. They loped into the shallows, swam a bit and waded into sucking mud. Beyond, lay the camp.

Cautiously they skirted the edges. A sentry approached, and leaving the gray behind, the black wolf sneaked forward, gathered his legs beneath him and his wiry muscles tensed.

A leap, a stifled sob, then a splash in the puddles and the man was down, with his throat opened wide and bubbling.

Another sentry approached, peering about for the source of the faint noises, and the gray wolf sprang. Then both,

THE MASTER FIGHTS


muzzles dabbled red, slunk into the sleeping and defenseless camp.

As the gray had supposed, no one was visible. In their quarters, some slept and others dozed, but over all lay quiet and a patter of rain that hushed any possible sound of velvet footfalls.

Near the cannon, the black wolf stopped, sent out a silent command, and the gray prowled, watchful, alert to protect, while the Master assumed the human form once more. An instant he busied himself there; then again two misshapen tailless wolf-things trotted on into the camp.

A brush and canvas shelter lay a little apart from the others, and from it came stertorous snores. An instant of hesitation and both wolves entered the low doorway. When they came out again, the snoring had stopped.

The eyes of both gleamed with a strange exhilaration as they separated.

The black took one line of shelters and the gray wolf commenced dipping in and out of another line, leaving a trail of red drops on the wet ground to mark where he had passed. Behind them lay a quiet that would never again be broken by the occupants of the shelters they had visited.

This dreadful business went on for a long time, without interruption. The black wolf had finished two lines of shelters and was half-way along with a third, while the gray was slaughtering, joyously drunk with killing, on his second line, when a man awoke from frightful dreams to look into slavering jaws and find a more horrid reality there.

He had just time to cry out, "Warewoolfes!” before his spine cracked in those iron jaws. The other occupant of the shelter roused and yelled something incoherent, and also died.

At once there was commotion, men running about without aim or purpose, looking for an enemy band of raiders;

not realizing what they were to fight until they saw the two beasts, oddly high in the hind quarters, leaping in and out of the lines of shelters.

An Irish renegade guide, with the troop, fell on his knees at the sight. Demons!” he howled. "The bugs! The bugs! The bug-wolves are after us!” And went crawling away toward the cannon, on hands and knees through the mud.

The cry of "Bug- wolves” went racing through the camp, adding to the general terror of the troops to whom the country tales of men-beasts* were speedily being brought home.

And all the while, the two wolves, making the most of the confusion, were leaping swiftly about, pulling down one here and another there and worrying him to death, snarling like mad things. Heads down and dodging blows, they finally dashed through the center of camp, toward the castle again. On a little rise of ground, they stopped, plain against the lighter sky and directly in line of fire of the cannon.

The Irish guide, breathing a hurried prayer that the cannon was loaded, depressed the muzzle and surrounded by a frantic crowd of soldiers, ignited the charge.

The mighty concussion that followed shook the camp. A lurid flash of light lit up the billowing clouds overhead, fragments of iron and mangled bodies flew everywhere, and in Castle Manglana six men looked at one another with surprize in their eyes, not daring to hope that the missing man had found a way to help them.

The flimsy shelters were down in many places and when the deafened survivors of the explosion thought of the two wolves again, the rise of ground was bare.

A rising wind now brought a downpour of rain, a steady fall that brought the surface of Lough Erne lapping over



the marshlands at the base of the promontory and still continued. Before morning, Castle Manglana would be upon an island and the rain which would follow for days would prove sufficient to render the position of the English untenable before another cannon could be secured.

Cuellar and five other Spaniards were to see their homes at last.

Miles away, the Master stood wrapped in his black cloak. A gray wolf crouched at his feet.

"That way,” said the somber dwarf, “lies Antrim. From there you can easily reach Scotland. I have told you where to find your surviving relative, and I am very sure you will like her. Run now and get as far as you can before morning. Take the clothes of the first man you meet an hour before dawn.

"What caused the cannon to blow up? I put in an extra charge of powder, and filled the muzzle with mud! Good-bye, Leon Gunnar, you are a worthy slave.”

A second later the gray wolf was alone. He did not hesitate, but turned in the direction the Master had indicated.

Senora Cuellar would some day see her man again, and never know that an unknown friendless wanderer had given years of his life that six men with families might be together again. Nor, had she known, would she have believed.

But he, who had sacrificed to save others, was loping on through the night toward Antrim and Scotland in desperate haste.

In the morning he would be a naked man, never again to know the unholy power and desires of this one red night.

3. In the Tomb of the Bishop

W hen the tomb was new and the smell of freshly cut stone still hung about the rock that formed it, men came with sad faces and walking slowly,

and placed therein a man who they supposed was finished with walking and the other trivial matters that interest the living.

After the proper ceremonies had been observed they shut and locked the massive iron door, and leaving the poor dead thing there, they went their several ways and thought but little of the remains of one who had but lately been held in high respect.

For a while on anniversaries, those who had loved the bishop came and placed flowers there and wept a little for all the hopes and fears that they were burdened with, and being comforted within themselves they went away again.

And all the while the great iron key hung in a secret place in the ancestral castle of the Gunnars, and it was the only one that would fit the intricate lock that fastened the tomb of the bishop.

And all the while, the Worm, who is lord of us all, went to and fro within the tomb and fed in his own manner and was filled and well content.

And the soul of the bishop basked in the mellow light of Paradise, caring no more for his body or its future than we for a shoe that has been outworn and cast aside.

One by one, those that had known the bishop ceased to visit the tomb, and passing from the places that had known them well, also joined him again and were content.

And the Worm, who is lord of us all, finding nothing to keep him longer there, left the bones of the bishop in silence and darkness and peace.

Lichens and mosses and vines grew over the gray stones and rust flaked thickly red in the hinges of the iron door.

And in the secret place where hung the key, a great fat spider lived out her life and was not disturbed.

In the tomb of the bishop, time was of

THE MASTER FIGHTS


little account, but outside a hundred years went by and brought changes that were inevitable and to be expected.

One night, men came to that tomb in desperate haste, casting glances behind them as though they were sorely afraid, and when they placed a key in the lock and it would not turn, they panted as though they had been running far and had yet far to go by morning.

And they tried yet another key and another and the lock would not turn, and despair came upon them, for it was very important that the tomb should be opened.

At last, the youngest of .the men came across the garden and in his hand was the old key and behind him inside the ancient castle of the Gunnars, which was burning with a great crackling and a vast amount of light, an old fat shespider cursed that man with all the power of a spider’s curse, for he had taken away a home that to her line had been far more ancient and hallowed than any place can be to men.

It took four men to open that rusty door, and they did not remain long inside, but placed a parcel well wrapped and protected against the damp, upon the casket where lay the bishop’s dry and aged bones.

In the parcel was a book, whose pages were made of human skin, and which told a story which was grim and horrible and a little sad.

And they left it there, where they thought it to be safe, and separated and went to far countries and saw one another no more till the day after their deaths, when some of them were reunited.

And behind them, rust gathered again in the hinges of the door, and the lichens and mosses and all the green vines gathered more thickly still upon the

stones that formed the tomb of the bishop.

But the key had been cut into two pieces and one of the men had taken one half and his younger brother had taken the other, and the movements of that last half have been told elsewhere at some length.

Over the tomb of the bishop crawled another hundred years, but if you had chanced to enter, you would have noticed perhaps that there was now a feeling within that some one else was present. Perhaps if you had laid your ear very close to the casket where the book lay, you would have heard a faint rustling inside that sounded like a very small mouse that could not or would not be quiet. And then you would have left, I am sure.

T wo men walked in the old Gunnar park and came to the garden, long grown over with weeds.

One was an old man apparently, but his wrinkles and white hair came from an inward trouble and not from the pitiless claws of Time.

The other, o"bviously the son of the first mentioned, was but just come at his maturity. There was a look in his young eyes that spoke of evil things that no man should know and live, lest the rest of the world should find cause to regret after it was too late to prevent knowledge from becoming unspeakable action.

Leon Gunnar had married in Scotland, apprenticed his only son to a warlock sorcerer in the hope that the resultant learning would provide a way to fight the black Master to whom he had bound himself, and now with but a day remaining of the thirty years that he had been allowed by the pact to which he had agreed, had come with his son after the book which had something in it that the younger man must know.



In a thicket, a monstrosity gloated and hugged itself and chattered in a voice more shrill than any bat as it watched the culmination of a long-planned revenge.

It was close when they unlocked the door with a shining new key made from the pattern of the split and rusty one. Its voice was so high that the older man could not hear it at all as they pried back the aged door with all their strength and short iron bars. The senses of the young warlock were made keen by his training and he stopped his work to listen, but the Master was more cunning than he and made no more noises.

It was alert and waiting for its chance when they entered the tomb of the bishop and saw there upon the rotten old casket what they had long desired. '

It was watching when the younger man came out of the tomb with the precious book in his arms, and it tittered nervously when Leon Gunnar thought he heard a noise inside the old casket and turned back to listen.

The young Scottish warlock was on his knees in the weeds tearing off the coverings from the old book when he heard a tiny noise behind him. He looked back.

The door that Jiad almost defied the combined strength of two strong men was closing by itself, without a creak or rasp from the rust-eaten hinges.

From inside the tomb came a scream that held all the terror imaginable to the mind of man!

The young man cried out, "Father!” in agony of spirit, and reached for the edge of the door.

A mist swirled before him there, out of which stared two red, burning eyes. Without a sound, he dropped in his tracks and the door closed.

Inside, Leon Gunnar had seen, before the tomb went dark, the old wooden

casket crumble into dust. It was at.the sight of the horror that sat upright in that heap of punk, its jaws clicking and its bony arms reaching out for him, that he had screamed!

It was then he knew that his thirty years of life had come to. an end. *******

A fter a long while the iron door i- opened and a third individual appeared in the opening. About four feet in height, the Master was wrapped from head to foot in a cloak of blade that hid all of his form except his glittering eyes. In them lurked a suspicion of moisture, as he looked upon the interior of the tomb where bits of dry hard bones mingled with scraps of tattered flesh.

Could it be possible that the Master felt regret for the end he had plotted?

Had the young warlock not been unconscious outside that place of sudden and frightful death, and had he heard the Master’s low soliloquy, any impression of this nature would have been confirmed.

"I have been a fool,” said the Master to himself, “and I have made one of my few mistakes. I gave only a will to tear and mangle, to that heap of dry bones! I should have instructed it to save enough of the body intact, so that I could use it. There is nothing here of value to me!”

He directed his piercing gaze into a corner of the dark chamber.

"You have won, Gunnar, through no wisdom of yours. Our past is ended and you are free. Your boy I shall allow to return to Scotland when he awakes to learn more magic. I will meet him again when he is worth fighting! Leon Gunnar, take your freedom!”

Something shot by the Master and out of the door, with the zip of an arrow, audible only to the black dwarf’s senses. Slowly, he closed the iron door and

MEN OF STEEL


turned the key. The vines fell into place again and there was silence and darkness and peace in the hidden tomb of the forgotten bishop.

And the Worm, who is lord of us all,

came in the night and found that therein which made him merry, but the young warlock was far away, with the book of ill omen, and no one knows where the Master went, in deep regret.

MEN OF STEEL

By AINSLEE JENKINS

STILL remember, above all else, Ared Haggard’s smile.

That, you might think, is not unusual. But when you have heard this fantastic tale to its end — and set me down, perhaps, for a weak-witted creature whose mind the brooding desert has turned — you will wonder that it is the smile I recall so distinctly.

You, however, never saw Ared Haggard smile.

Picture a long, blankly white face, etched over with a hundred intercrossing lines. A thin prow of a nose, and on either side of it two deeply imbedded,

low-lidded eyes. A fat, sensual underlip, its color the livid purple of a fresh bruise, contrasting oddly with the lean, twisted upper one. A straight chin, with the black bristles of a harsh beard.

The lips, though, were the things that wrought Ared Haggard’s smile, and it is that twitching smile, planted undyingly in my memory, which bids me set down this story.

On the lonely reaches of die great Mojave Desert you can not pick and choose amongst your neighbors; to the contrary, you must be thankful if you even have one. Ared Haggard was mine. And



though from die very first some wary sixth sense warned me that here was a man dangerously different from . all others, I welcomed his presence and did my best, through fairly frequent visits, to cultivate and strengthen our friendship.

He was, I gathered, comparatively wealthy and thus able to humor his slightest whim. An eccentric, certainly. Otherwise why had he purchased the rambling, grotesque castle he lived in? "Miner’s Folly,” they called the place, and a folly it definitely was. Years ago some pick-and-panner had struck it rich, and, as many of them do in similar cases, built for himself this huge castle, set just below the cadaverous ribs of one of the Mojave’s barren mountain ranges. The structure had been lonely and deserted for years when Ared Haggard chanced upon it. Evidently it had appealed to him, for he’d purchased it and converted it to his own obscure purposes, as I’ve said.

This particular evening I had felt the need of some type of conversation, no matter how morbid — as Haggard’s usually was — and had accordingly paced the three miles which separated my little shack and "Miner’s Folly.” Hundreds of yards off I’d heard the baying of his gaunt wolf-hound which always heralded my approach, and Haggard was standing under the raised portcullis of the doorway when I trudged up. Portcullis? Yes. That miner had followed the plan of a mediaeval castle to the smallest detail!

Even in the fast-thickening gloom I could detea a change in the man’s manner. And when I came closer I saw that his eyes were burningly alive, restless, even eager. He stretched out his bony hands and grasped my shoulders and then actually slapped me on the back. Never before had I been granted such a greeting.

"I’m glad, Wells,” his harsh, impatient voice told me, "that you’ve come over tonight. I want somebody to talk to; I was even thinking of going over to fetch you. But come inside, and let old Tom give you a glass of my very particular port wine. The occasion needs some celebrating!”

"Occasion?” I said, puzzled. "What occasion?”

But he only shook his head and led me into the high-raftered main room of his castle.

As far as I was concerned, it might have been the only room of the place, for I’d never been through any of the others. There were others, of course, but the tall, bolt-studded doors which led to them were forever closed, and Haggard simply didn’t hear me whenever I’d suggested inspeaing them. I’ll admit that this silent refusal had put an edge to my curiosity; often I’d laughingly accused him of being a second Bluebeard, with his dread secrets locked up in those mysterious rooms. "Some night,” he once said, "I’ll show you them. . .

Was this, I wondered, to be the night?

W hen we were seated in the squat leather chairs which Haggard favored, old Tom, true to his master’s word, brought us glasses of a rich port wine, and we both lit cigarettes. Old Tom was Haggard’s lone servant, a tall, dark Navajo Indian. Some affliaion had rendered him dumb, though he could hear very well, and this fortunate combination made him, in my opinion, the perfea menial. , Haggard’s white face seemed to be hanging suspended before me in the halflight; he had drained the drink with a gulp and was I could see, itching to speak.

"Well,” I began, to start him off, "why so anxious to have me over tonight, Haggard?”

He leaned forward and his eyes, with their pin-points of flame, ran over my

W. T — 6

MEN OF STEEL


whole body. I felt curiously naked under that concentrated stare. I laughed somewhat uneasily and repeated the question.

"You’ve wondered, I suppose. Wells,” he rasped finally, "why I live up here as I do. A hellish life, eh? No reason for it. You, of course, write, and stick yourself away in the desert because of its solitude. But I — ah, why have I secluded myself in this crazy castle? A mystery, isn’t it?” He chuckled delightedly.

I said hurriedly: "Of course I have conjectured sometimes about your purpose in coming up here. I supposed that you were sick, as I was, of the noise and brawl of the city. Or perhaps it’s your health?”

"Not,” he murmured, "my health. Oh no, no! But I’ll tell you this, Wells: the desert’s a marvelous place for more things than writing. ...”

"You’ve got a hobby, then?” I asked.

The question had a peculiar effect on him. His lips positively writhed, and the uneven rows of “his yellowish teeth showed through in a ghastly smile. Smile! It shouldn’t be called a smile. A smile is warm and human and friendly. Haggard’s might have been friendly, but human — it wasn’t human.

At that moment I was downright afraid of him.

"A hobby,” he said slowly. "You can call it that, Wells, if you like. Yes, I have a hobby. So did Edison have a hobby, and Steinmetz, and thousands before them. Thousands of whom the average man’s never heard, thousands who followed their calling in the ignorant, superstition-ridden Middle Ages, when the slightest rumor about them meant a horrible, torturous death. Those men — the astrologers, alchemists, scientists of mediaeval times — are my heroes, Wells. And to them I’ve dedicated — my hobby.”

Strange, uncanny talk in the wavering gloom of that fantastic desert castle, with W. T.— 7

the night wind moaning through the sage and sand outside!

"Then,” I said, essaying a nervous little laugh, "it’s your hobby that you keep concealed behind those mysterious doors!”

He nodded his lank head. There certainly seemed to be a fascination for him in running his prying eyes over my body; he did it constantly. "Yes,” he muttered, "behind those doors. I intended, at first, to take you through them tonight, but now I think I’ll reserve that pleasure for you till the final, triumphant instant. Then it’ll be twice the thrill it would be now. Oh, you’re fortunate, Wells, you’re fortunate! You’ve got the experience of a lifetime coming to you!”

"The experience,” I repeated, "of a lifetime?”

"Yes!” He wagged his head gleefully. "A thing to remember to your dying day!”

He suddenly fell silent, as if brooding. Then he peered up at me. "I just recalled it,” he said. "Didn’t you say something about your fiancee coming to see you?”

I smiled. I always smiled when I thought of Jean Erskine. We’d been engaged for I don’t know how long, waiting till I could afford our marriage. Jean told me repeatedly I was a stilted fool not to accept, for a while, her comfortable income; but I couldn’t abide the thought of it. You know the feeling.

"Yes,” I confirmed. "She’s going to spend a couple of days here. No scandal, Haggard! You needn’t be afraid of anything — er — improper. I assure we don’t need a chaperone.”

He laughed. "I’ll accept your word. When does she arrive?”

"Let’s see,” I figured. "Today’s Monday. Two days from now, on Thursday.”

"M-m-m. Bring her over Thursday night, Wells. I think she’d get a thrill



too out of what’s behind those locked doors you're so curious about.”

I overlooked the commanding tone of his invitation; Haggard was like that.

"Can’t you give me an inkling of its nature?” I asked. "Nothing that’ll upset her, is it?”

Again that contortion of his lips. "Oh, no! I wouldn’t ask her otherwise. You may rest assured of that, Wells . . . but more I won’t tell you. I want the glory, the magnificence, the triumph of it to take you by surprize. I want — but enough. I’ll say no more. Thursday night you will be admitted to the secret of secrets, the most splendid achievement ever consummated by man, the ultimate conquest of mind over matter!”

His tone had risen to that of a fanatic. His sunken eyes streamed fire; his gaunt face was alight; his hurtling words boomed challengingly through the vasty hall; for the moment I was forgotten; Haggard’s mind, I am convinced, had soared to an immortal realm. Once more I felt a tingling shiver scamper up my spine, and I told myself that Jean and I would keep away from "Miner’s Folly” on Thursday night. . . .

But curiosity is, with love and hunger, the great impelling force of life, and it was my damnable curiosity that conquered my dread and brought me back to that cursed house on Thursday night.

Soon after, I left. Ared Haggard had slumped down in his chair; he did not even rise to see me to the door. I stole out, and the romping gust of the icy, sage-spiced wind drove from my head the queer words and half hinted at thoughts I had heard. I walked slowly, revelling in the deep, clear purple of the desert night, listening to the crooned symphony of breeze and sage and sand, shot through occasionally with the far-away whining yap of a slinking coyote.

M y own house is a rude hut of three flimsy rooms. The door has no lock; you do not need one on the desert. I strode zestfully up to it, shoved it open, stepped in — and was immediately conscious that there was some one in the house.

No electric light, of course. I fumbled with a match, struck it. And in the quick, wavering flare I saw him.

Who?

Old Tom, Haggard’s Navajo servant! He was standing there impassively, awaiting me. I muffled an ejaculation of surprize and lit a lamp. Then I turned to him, the obvious question on my lips. "What’s wrong?”

He gestured for pencil and paper, his only way of communication. I found them, and watched him scrawl three shaky words on the white typewriter sheet.

"I — am — afraid.”

His dumb, peculiarly dog-like eyes rested on me as I read his message. I glanced up and jerked:

"Of what?”

He shook his head; his brown, gnarled old face wore an expression of puzzlement tinged with fear.

"Write it down,” I commanded. "What are you afraid of?”

He took some time over his next sentence; writing was a great labor to him. But finally it lay before me, and I scanned it with a feeling of unreality.

“I — am — afraid — of — Mister — Haggard.”

I laughed. What else could I do? Then the memory of Haggard’s wild, flaming eyes and wisted smile came upon me, and I fell silent and asked him, more soberly:

"Why?”

I did not like to read the words he put down in reply; but they were there, more ominous and chilling than if they’d been spoken.

MEN OF STEEL


"He — is mad.”

There was a sudden surge of wind, and the door rattled on its hinges. Almost I expected to see it swing open and reveal Haggard, piercing us with his devilish eyes. I dragged it back and stared outside; but there was nothing except the ghostly stretch of the desert and the crinkled, outflung shadow of a joshua tree.

"What makes you think he’s mad, Tom?”

His painful writing answered:

"He works — on a — great machine. He — looks — at me — with eyes — of — madness.”

I, too, had seen those eyes! But I put the old Indian’s alarm down to Haggard’s excitement and the deep superstition of the Navajo race. I tried to cheer him up.

"Nonsense, Tom! He looks at me in the same way — looks at everybody like that. He’s just excited about his machine, or invention, or whatever it is. You needn’t worry. He’ll get back to normal after Thursday night, when he’s explained the thing to me.”

But Tom was writing again. And the words were:

" Y ou — must — not — come — Thursday. You must — keep away.”

I laughed again. "No, I’ll be there,” I said. "I’m too curious. Now go home and get a good sleep. You’re tired and worn out; you’re seeing things that aren’t so. Don’t worry, Tom. Mr. Haggard’s far from mad.”

Yes, he was indeed far from mad!

Old Tom looked at me once more with his plaintive, dumb eyes. Then he turned, and slowly, silently trudged out of the house and faded into the mystic night.

Fool that I was to let him go ! Witless, unseeing, selfish fool! Had I but known — had I but been able to see a few hours in advance!

But it’s useless to waste vain regrets. I was to blame for old Tom’s fate, and the

thought has fanged and accused me ever since.

For when the Navajo returned to "Miner’s Folly” — however, let me tell the tale as it happened.

1 slept soundly that night. One does, on the desert, no matter what the events of the day. And in the morning I followed my regular routine: a stiff, bracing walk, breakfast of the customary eggs and bacon, and then work.

I was writing, at that time, a series of rather boring articles on the great Western deserts for some geographical magazine; and I devoted a portion to the Indians that inhabited them. This necessitated a bit of research on my part, and most of the day I spent in delving into a few musty volumes I fortunately had on the subject. Quite accidentally I happened to strike a chapter explaining in detail the sign language of the Indian tribes: the art of speaking through gestures of the hands. It interested me, and I read it thoroughly.

But my mind was really occupied with thoughts of Jean Erskine’s approaching visit. If you ever saw her, you’d understand how it was.

So passed Tuesday. Wednesday I really proved just how crazy I was over the girl: I cleaned up the house.

I did not have occasion to go near "Miner’s Folly,” and the strange appearance of old Tom and his fears passed gradually from my mind.

And, early Thursday morning, Jean rode out of the desert, a guide bringing her safely through the sandy wastes to my home.

She was radiantly beautiful in the fresh, streaming sunlight; I could see that her guide, a raw-boned, bronzed, typical desert Westerner, had fallen for her already, and I didn’t blame him. Jean’s like that. This chap put off leaving as long



as he could, and when I offered him a cup of coffee he almost split his long face with a grateful grin. Jean immediately began to fuss around the house, crying out now and again at the perfect atrocity of my arrangements, and disturbing all my loving work. She didn’t want any coffee, so the guide and I sat down by ourselves in the kitchen — which didn’t please him any too much.

"Say, Mistuh Wells,” he drawled slowly, pouring a full five spoons of sugar into his drink, “yuh got a queer neighbor oveh here.”

"Ared Haggard?”

"Yes, suh," he said emphatically. "That’s th' one. I reckon he’s kinda cracked, ain’t he?”

"Strikes me as being sane enough,” I said, smiling. “Has he got the reputation of being a bit cracked?”

"Well, suh,” my guest announced, "I ain’t got no def’nite dope on him, but I sure do know he’s hauled an awful lot o’ funny-lookin’ junk into that theh crazy castle o’ his.”

"Who’s this?” asked Jean, coming out from the other room. "Some one near here?”

The guide grinned bashfully at her. "Mistuh Ared Haggard,” he informed her. "He lives just a mite away from here in a doggone crazy castle we call 'Miner’s Folly’.”

"Castle?” repeated Jean. "Oh, Jim, you must take me over to see it!”

"He’s asked us there tonight,” I told her. "I didn’t know whether you’d want to go or not.”

I could see that her curiosity was aroused, for she said emphatically that she certainly did want to go. At which statement the guide perked up his ears.

"I dunno,” he muttered, "as how I’d go oveh theh — ’specially at night. Yuh see, miss, this fellah comes down t’ th’ village ever’ oncet in a while an’ hauls up

a lot o’ queer-lookin’ machinery. Doggone l f I know whut he wants it foh!”

I informed Jean that Haggard evidently had some kind of an invention he wished to demonstrate to us. "He’s an unusual type of person,” I finished, "but perfectly harmless. You’d like to go, then?”

"I would!” she said. And that sealed the matter.

The guide had sunk into the very gloomiest of moods, and he soon took his leave, muttering unintelligible things about Ared Haggard. Jean sped him on his way with a smile, however, and that cheered him up some. Then she came and sat with me, and we talked. We went all over the old ground — she trying to urge me to leave "this awful place,” and be sensible about the financial difficulty which was postponing our wedding. And I just as firmly refused.

After a dreamy afternoon the shades of night stole over and cooled the desert, and transformed its rawness into a thing of soft beauty. "Well,” said Jean, "you’re just a pig-headed, stubborn old fool, and I don’t like you a bit. Now let me get some dinner, and we’ll go and see this mysterious Mr. Haggard.”

So we set out.

W hen I look back on it all, I marvel.

I wonder that at the time I did not foresee the horror into which we were placidly walking. And yet, I suppose, I was not so terribly to blame. It is hard to realize how very thin the veneer of civilization, of normalcy, is — how easily an individual, deluded by opium-like dreams, can smash it, and recreate for awhile the barbarous savagery of the dim ages.

We walked slowly, my arm around her, and I knew perfect contentment. The evening was at its most beautiful

MEN OF STEEL


state, romantic, ideal. I was indeed happy.

The first glimpse of the castle, however, changed that mood. It seemed to sound a muttered, hushed prelude of what was to come — of the hidden beast soon to spring upon us. . . .

I had never seen "Miner’s Folly” look so ominous.

The hulking hills behind it threw a mantle of deep shadows over its grotesque walls; in the rear of the place I seemed to glimpse lurking figures, shadow-cloaked; the very air was still and charged with a peculiar tautness.

I know that Jean felt it as well as I did, for she looked up at me and exclaimed: "What an uncanny spot this is!”

"It impresses me more that way this evening than ever before,” I said. "D’you think we’d better turn back?”

She laughed at my suggestion. "But,” she admitted, "I have a curious sensation of — of being watched. Does your friend Haggard always watch the approaching guest?”

"No,” I told her. "But I can’t blame him for watching you.” At which she laughed again.

We walked into the brooding shadow of the doorway. The great door swung silently open — and there, peering at us from the dark hall, were Haggard’s eyes.

For a moment I was wordless. And while we stood there, like dumb fools, there was a rattle and a slithering noise and, behind us, the raised portcullis dropped down, effectively barring us in.

"Good Lord!” I exclaimed involuntarily. "What ”

Then Haggard came forward, with that smile on his lips.

"I must apologize,” he murmured. "I did not mean to frighten you — merely wished to show the young lady what a really complete mediaeval castle this is.”

Overcoming my astonishment, I remembered my manners and introduced them.

"Delighted, Miss Erskine,” said Ared Haggard, "that you braved my idiosyncrasies and came here tonight. Please excuse me for alarming you with that contraption.”

His eyes positively gloated over her body.

"It did rather astonish me,” she admitted. "But what a curious place you have here, Mr. Haggard!”

"Curious?” he said. "Curious? Well, perhaps. It suits me, however, exactly. Sit down, won’t you, and’have a drink?”

I noticed that he brought the wine himself this time.

"Where’s old Tom?” I asked.

"Busy,” said Ared Haggard. "Busy in the rear. You’ll see him presently.”

And we did see him presently. . . .

I still shiver when I think of it.

At any rate, we all seated ourselves in the somehow pregnant silence of the lofty hall, and I did my best to encourage a cheerful conversation. So did Jean. But, after a few minutes, words died on my lips, and I became conscious of a strange new noise — a strange new sensation, rather.

It was a low, vibrant humming, a humming that did not assault the ear only; it seemed rather to enter the whole body and to set the fibers and muscles and nerves quivering in sympathy with it. The nerves, I believe, particularly, for its deep, almost inaudible buzzing soon had me irritable and jumpy and at the same time afraid — of what I do not know. I was conscious of the steel-barred portcullis, of the heavy, tightly closed doors, of the fact that I was absolutely unarmed. I tried to convince myself that I was a suspicious fool, and strove to ignore that persistent humming. But I could not. It pierced through all my weak defenses, and I glanced uneasily at Ared Haggard.



He was watching me with the eyes of a hawk.

He was waiting for something, waiting, waiting.

Waiting for what?

And then I remembered the rich port wine he had given us. My God! That was it! Even as I thought of it, the dim walls above seemed to crumple, to sway, to jig and dance and pound to the rhythm of the hypnotic humming. And soon the narrowed, gleaming eyes of Ared Haggard had joined that mad capering; they too were leaping up and down, up and down, up and down. . . .

Frantically I stared at Jean Erskine. Her head had fallen over on her shoulder; she was asleep! Drugged!

I dragged at my limbs; I forced my leaden lips open; an abortive shriek came from them in the guise of a miserable groan. I tried to get up, and, trembling, half arose. Then my legs turned to clay; I staggered and fell.

Ared Haggard’s thin eyes surveyed our helpless bodies mockingly. Mockingly — and triumphantly.

This was the night we were to see his invention. Only now can I understand the grim, sardonic humor of the man, the way he toyed with me, deliberately baited and enticed me through my curiosity.

Yes, we were to see his invention. We were to feel it!

H ave you ever been under ether?

You have an inkling, then, of the sensations, utterly mad and fantastic, which surged through my brain during that helpless period when I lay a victim of the drugs of the master of "Miner’s Folly.”

I seem to recall a malevolent, lank face, with the smile of the devil himself scourging its lips, coming close to mine; and shudderingly I remember the foul beat of its breath. I could not avoid it;

I was no better than a limp corpse. I did not know whom this grinning face belonged to, for there was, of course, no remembrance in my doped brain of previous events. I recall being slung like a bag of flour over a bony shoulder. A bolt-studded door opened; I was carried, I think, into a large white room bathed in the most awful radiance I have ever beheld. I could not, then, define it; I was merely conscious of it.

Next, in this macabre, distorted episode, there came the vision of a hideous monster with a huge, jerkily moving body of dull metal.

I remember feeling the press of straps being fastened around me, binding me to some kind of chair. Before me moved two figures, one lean and long-legged, the other the monster of steel.

Then I sank into a black gulf, and apparently slept. Of this time I recall absolutely nothing.

Outside, the night thickened. The moon was on the other side of the world. Only a slow wind moaned around the desert castle called "Miner’s Folly.”

At about twelve, I think, I awoke.

I did not know, for the moment, where I was. The first thing I saw when my senses had partially returned was the bound, gagged figure of Jean Erskine, harnessed to a peculiar chair, over which hung a round headpiece of sheeny metal, sprouting a myriad of spidery wires.

I tried to call to her. I could not! My mouth, too, was gagged!

It was then that I turned my attention to the rest of the room; and it was then that my blood choked icily in my veins. It was then that the full realization of the situation we were in smote me with a sickening thud. And it was then that I cursed myself, and felt the pricking sweat spurt through my pores.

For we were behind those mysterious locked doors; we were face to face with

MEN OF STEEL


the deviltry I had unknowingly called Ared Haggard’s "hobby.”

Jean and I were alone, for the moment, in the room. And I was staring with bulging eyes at a contraption which I do not even pretend to understand, a contraption which still leads me to believe that Ared Haggard was a genius — not a madman. No madman could have devised and perfected that machine. It came from a cool and logical brain, not a disordered one. Although, to be sure, a genius is not a normal person. He lives in a world apart from ours.

To begin with, set in the white floor perhaps five feet in front of me was a deep vat, in which simmered a liquid that astounded my eyes with its constantly changing colors. And, more amazing still, this liquid seemed oddly transparent, for I could plainly see the bottom of the vat through it.

Next I discovered that the chair in which Jean was bound had small wheels on its legs, and these wheels were set on a pair of miniature rails, resembling street-car lines. And — good Lord! — the rails led to the brink of the liquid-filled vat!

My chair was similarly outfitted.

In the rear of the room bulked a huge black device shaped like a dynamo, and from this droned the low humming I had heard earlier in the evening. A confusion of cables led from it, some extending to the vat in the floor, wrapping around it, I judged, underground; others went to a sort of switchboard arrangement, from which fresh relays of cables wound to a flat platform that reminded me of an operating-table. And on this table lay two grotesque, hideous figures, molded in the external form of human bodies.

But they were made of steel!

Then, with a shudder, I recalled the man of metal that had moved jerkily before my drug-crazed eyes when I was first carried into this room.

Was that man a reality? I hardly dared think.

I noticed Jean’s eyelids begin to flicker; presently they opened full, and she gazed at me. She did not, as yet, realize where she was. I prayed that, by some mercy, the drug would have a lingering effect on her brain, and that she would not be fully conscious of whatever we were doomed to suffer.

But the horror that dawned and grew in her large eyes forced me to abandon that hope.

I could not speak, could not comfort and reassure her — that was the hell of it. I could merely stare and try vainly to speak to her through my eyes.

A mad idea of struggling free entered my head. I inspected, as best I could, my bonds. I found that tight leather straps circled my body just above the elbows, clamping the upper parts of my arms to me, allowing me to move the lower part freely. My legs were also tied to the chair. I thought of tearing the gag from my moudi with my free hands; but this proved hopeless. The head was held firmly upward, and my fingers could not reach it by at least three inches.

No use! No use! There was no escape!

At that moment one of the doors swung open. And Ared Haggard stepped into the room.

He did not appear to notice us, but walked to the switchboard, fiddled with a few levers and then put what looked like a pair of radio earphones on his head. For some time he listened, again adjusted the levers, and next pulled full over a large control switch.

The low humming soared upward, grew to a quick, vibrant drone. Haggard appeared to be satisfied. He took



off the headphones and walked toward us, his captives.

I imagine the look in my eyes must have been murderous, for he glanced at me and then laughed — a harsh, deliberate cackle.

"My dear Wells,” he chuckled, "I'm afraid you’re taking this altogether in the wrong spirit. Please try to see it in its true light. You and the young lady are — er — lending your valuable selves to a glorious enterprise, not a mad butchering of bodies. I’m sorry that I was, of necessity, such a poor host tonight, but you’ll realize, I feel positive, that the course I took was the only possible one. Really, I swear to you, if you were capable of conducting this operation, I’d willingly change places with you. You look at it in such a material way! Man’s progress must always be made through sacrifice; the scientist, the prophet of a new day, is forced to stern measures in order to bring about his improvements. You can rest assured that in after years your name, and that of your fiancee, will be hallowed and honored; will be always coupled with that of Ared Haggard. Though you do not realize it now, that alone is ample reward for what you must submit to tonight.”

He glanced down at the vat of radiant liquid.

"This,” he continued, "is a mixture of various chemicals which neutralizes certain acidic forces in the body and aggravates others. You will find, I believe, that the vat treatment is the only downright uncomfortable one of the whole process. I really envy you your experience of it, your nervous reactions! After a few moments of rather painful penetration, you will have the feeling of leaving your body, of floating in an ecstatical medium; the head-clamp you’ll observe just over your chairs will transfer certain qualities of your brain to the steel figures

over there. This involves a profound formula never yet stumbled upon by science; it plants in the robots — but wait. I’ll demonstrate the thing to you.” He held up a lean forefinger.

"Remember,” he pronounced, slowly and gravely, "this is not an experiment! My method has been proved! It is a reality!”

H e turned to the open door, which led into a room behind the one we were in.

"Come!” he said sharply.

There was a dull, heavy tread. A monster seemed to be moving. And then there strode in a thing that eclipses the figments of the craziest nightmare.

It was the man of metal.

It stood about six feet five; its trunk was merely a barrel-like casing of steel; squat on top of it was the creature’s head, resembling the casque of mediaeval knights. Mechanical? Yes. But from the head glowed two eyes that were alive!

They were now fixed dumbly on Haggard, who stood surveying it smilingly. The thing’s arms swung from ball-like swivels imbedded in the huge shoulders; one of them ended in short, stumpy fingers; the other a pointed, sharp shear. It stood on wide pads of feet, stood firmly, solidly.

I saw that Jean had closed her eyes, and I was grateful.

"Bend over!” ordered Haggard. And the creature instantly bent, jerkily, but as if sure of what it was doing.

"Straighten up!”

Each command it followed, exactly, precisely.

"The power of individual thought,” said Ared Haggard, "has been excluded. In short, the robot has no soul, though possessing the other human qualities of hearing, seeing, and obeying orders.

MEN OF STEEL


This one can not speak. Why? Because the man it was formed from was dumb.”

My God! It struck me like a thunderbolt. This was old Tom, the Navajo servant!

I strained at my gag, my bonds. Useless, useless!

"Yes,” said Ared Haggard, as if reading my thoughts, "this is the Navajo Indian you knew as old Tom. Unfortunately, he was the only material I had to experiment with. You can see why I wanted two perfect bodies to transform into robot shape.

"Can you appreciate what this invention means? Armies of robots, the consummation of the mechanical age!”

Thus he talked. I watched his thin eyes, his triumphant face, his leering smile, and I knew we could expea no mercy from him.

"It will make me,” he said, "master of the world! But enough. I have partially explained the beauties of the method to you; you can thus appreciate it. ... I think I will take the girl first.”

He returned to the switchboard, put on the earphones, touched a lever. Immediately the helmet-like thing above Jean’s chair swung down, fitting neatly over her head. The noise of the motor leaped to an infernal roar. In the vat, the liquid bubbled anew, a veritable rainbow of dazzling colors rioting through it. Haggard pressed a button; the chair in which the girl was bound rolled with terrible deliberation toward the edge of the vat.

This was agony! I strained, tried vainly to release myself..

And then a mad hope flashed through my brain.

Haggard’s back was toward me. He was hunched over, listening intently, waiting, I fancy, for the exatt moment to plunge the viaim into the simmering fluid. Old Tom — the robot, rather — was standing where his master had left

him, his ghastly eyes pointed, by some chance, toward me. But there was, of course, no recognition, no thought, no life in them.

Jean’s chair was slowly tilting on the brink. In a second Haggard would cut her bonds and so force her into the liquid.

Then, with desperate concentration, I raised my hands. Waved them, to attraa the robot’s attention. Pounded one fist into the palm of the other.

Why?

The Indian sign language!

Would he respond? _ Would he understand? Again I repeated the signal,

meaning "You ” And this time I

thought I could detea a gleam of comprehension in the metal monster’s staring eyes.

Frantically my hands moved. And he was watching me! "You,” I signaled, "release — me.” And repeated it again and again.

It was then that I blessed my casual study of the hand language — a study which I had paid much attention to years before, and which I had refreshed just two days ago.

For the robot moved ponderously toward me.

I could have shouted in my exultation. Haggard was still stooped at the switchboard; the roar of the machine was deafening. And Jean had seen what I was attempting to do; there was hope in the eyes that had previously held hopelessness.

The robot’s right hand raised jerkily; the shear sped down — and sliced through a portion of my bonds!

My arms were free!

Haggard must have sensed something, for of a sudden he whirled around. A roar came from his twisted lips; he sprang toward us. He shouted an order at the robot; but the tumult of the machinery drowned it.



My legs were free!

I bounded up, still partially gagged, but otherwise gloriously capable. A vicious swing of my right hand caught Ared Haggard flush on his pointed jaw. He staggered, flailed at me. But I was sure of myself. I stepped back and belted him cleanly again.

The blow drove him back. He tripped, and fell, shrieking, into the vat of chemicals.

Horror-struck, I rushed up, and peered down into the liquid. The sight sent a shiver over me.

The man’s clothes seemed to have vanished. His whole, naked body had gone a weird greenish-white. As I watched, it changed to a purpiy tint. His face was that of a dead man. Yet there must still have been consciousness in him, for, before my bulging eyes, his lips writhed — and he smiled!

I couldn’t stand it. That smile! Feverishly I undid Jean Erskine, hauled her from the chair. She slipped down onto the floor in a faint. Then I rushed to the switchboard, with some crazy notion of stopping the roaring machine. As I pulled frantically at the switches I beheld

one of the metal figures on the operatingtable stir slightly. It was coming to life!

I jammed over the main switch. There was a crash and an insane bellow, and clouds of dense white smoke billowed into the room. I saw tongues of fire lick out. With what strength I had left I picked up the girl and staggered from the place.

The portcullis barred the main entrance, but I broke one of the long windows, shoved Jean through, and finally felt the breath of the sane night once more on my brow.

A second later, it seemed, there was a rending explosion, and “Miner’s Folly” crumpled to the ground.

I have never set foot on that desert since. Men might have discovered and wondered at the ruins of the castle — I do not know. I am content with my wife, and my life with her has partially erased the scars of the night Ared Haggard showed us his "hobby.”

Partially, I said. Yes. Nothing can erase the memory of his last smile. . . .

^Portal to Pouier

GreV^ Lt spma.

The Story Thus Far

D r. PEABODY, taking to California a mysterious talisman entrusted him by a reputed witch on her death-bed, accepts the apropos invitation of Job Scudder, airship magnate, to fly west. He finds that Quint, his recently discharged employe, has been taken on the "Queen” as mechanic, and foresees trouble, since Quint is a secret emissary of certain Initiates who wish to gain possession of the talisman. Lcda, Scudder’s pretty niece, appears deeply disturbed at the presence of Henry Winch, secretary to a guest on the "Queen.” Quint gets control of the "Queen” and kidnaps the entire party. His associates have already brought the god Pan into materialization, and propose to make Leda high priestess.

CHAPTER 12

EANTIME, in another room of

the temple

"Wait here,” commanded Quint to the following party. "I shall bring Miss Scudder to you presently.” In answer to the unspoken question on old Job’s face, he added, "And Mr. Winch, of course. They are perfectly safe, I assure you. We only brought them here ahead of you because they were on this side of the closed portal last night. While you are waiting, breakfast will be served.”

Gemma was still sobbing "Pan!” under her breath in a terrified manner, as she clung to Larry Weaver’s arm, leaving his pistol hand, with remarkable perspicacity, free. Quint’s eyes regarded her disdainfully.

The escort of quaintly garbed soldiers left the party when Quint had motioned them into the great, high-ceiled room where they were to wait. Couches were arranged in the ancient Roman fashion about a central table, upon which glowed the enticing colors of mellowed fruits in red, yellow, purple, pale green. Three serving women .in gayly colored robes were setting steaming platters of food upon the table.

Quint departed unobtrusively, but Larry Weaver noted that two sentinels were left outside the door. He shook off the hand of the sobbing Gemma not unkindly and put the pistol back into its holster. His eyes sought the doctor’s.


This story began in WEIRD TALES for October.



"I suppose we might as well eat?” said Larry. "If what that chap said is O. K., Miss Scudder’ll be here in safety presently.”

"That statement does give one appetite,” returned the old doctor. "Come, Gemma, don't be so terrified. They don’t intend to harm us as far as I can see. Calm yourself, my girl.”

The Italian girl stood before him, her head hanging. Then she raised her oval face, and the liquid dark eyes met his with such terror in their depths that he felt a cold shudder run over him.

"You tell me to be calm and unafraid, sir. Why, how can I, when they have brought Pan back to earth? Is it possible you don’t know what that means?”

Job Scudder cut her short bruskly.

“Don’t make a fool of yourself, Gemma. Pan is nothing but a myth.”

Doctor Peabody turned a troubled face upon his friend.

"I’m not so sure of that, Job,” he said.

"Don’t tell me that you ?”

"My friend, what is happening to us is so incredible that it makes me feel that nothing is impossible to people who have set their wills upon it,” returned the doctor seriously. "I am sure that this kidnapping has at its foot” — he lowered his voice cautiously — "the theft of the stone I am carrying to the Circle of Light.”

"Let them have it, by all means, if they’ll let us all go,” Job urged with eagerness. "A geological specimen surrounded by an old woman’s fanciful notions . . . would you let that stand in the way of our freedom from this intolerable situation?”

The doctor shook his white head slowly, lips compressed.

"That I can not do. I mean, Job, I must keep my word to old Hannah. Moreover, I am convinced that matters of

grave import depend upon the safe delivery of that talisman into the right hands. Well, we shall see what we shall see. Meantime, as Quint suggested, suppose we have breakfast? Whatever is to happen, we will be the better for nourishment. I must admit that I am hungry,” he confessed, with a half-smile.

"I don’t know that I can eat,” began Job, but the doctor’s hand under his elbow urged him toward the table. The party followed the example of the two older men, and were soon distributed about upon the divans.

The serving women brought a convincingly modern breakfast of orangejuice, bacon, eggs, rolls, coffee and marmalade. Gemma alone could not eat. Her terrified eyes rolled toward the door every few minutes as if she expected something fearful and portentous to appear at the threshold and wished to be ready to hide herself when it came.

T he party had hardly started to eat when a sound at the door caught their attention. Henry Winch, holding the Airedale on the leash, came briskly into the room, scanning all the faces there with anxiety.

"Where’s Leda?” he asked abruptly of Job.

Larry’s head turned and he stared suspiciously at the speaker who took such a liberty.

"Quint says she’ll be here presently,” replied Job Scudder quickly. "Better eat, Winch, while you’ve the chance. None of us knows what we’re confronting.” Henry Winch shook his head.

"I can’t eat,” said he. "But Whiskers could, and Suki, I presume.”

On the dog’s now patient and accustomed back Suki was riding in triumph. Gemma called the marmoset to her, and began peeling a banana for the tiny aniTHE PORTAL TO POWER


rtial. When the Airedale sniffed the air wistfully, the Italian girl snatched up a platter from the table and regaled the dog with bacon and eggs.

Henry Winch replied to the queries of the doctor that he had been drugged in some way or chloroformed, and had wakened to find himself on a divan in a great room, and that immediately he had regained consciousness Quint must have been sent for. Quint had told him that the rest of the party were waiting for him.

As he talked, his anxious eyes were always on the door, and at last his watchfulness was rewarded. At the sound of advancing feet, the sentinels stood to one side to permit the entrance of a gilded litter carried by four men as black as ebony, their muscular bodies draped with leopardskins. The litter was set upon the ground, and the black bearers stood back, folding great arms upon their chests, faces impassive.

"Leda!” cried out Henry Winch, springing to the litter and drawing heavily embroidered curtains to one side with a clatter of sliding rings. "Leda! Leda! Speak to me!"

He leaned down frantically.

"Doctor Peabody, is she- ?” Agonized entreaty rang in the secretary’s voice.

Old Job had somehow reached the litter before the physician could rise from his divan. The tired gray face bent down. With one hand he motioned back the crowding Larry, Gemma, and Sir Hubert.

"Give her air,” ordered the doctor, pushing his way among them. "She’s perfectly all right,” he added, after a moment’s brief examination. "Coming out of a faint, that’s all.”

Henry Winch’s keen young eyes did not move from the pale face of the girl who lay back among the silken cushions. When her lips trembled slightly and her eyelids lifted drowsily, a kind of sobbing

came from his throat. "Leda!” he whispered, low and tenderly. "Come back, dear.”

As if his voice had crossed the threshold of her drifting consciousness, the girl opened her eyes widely, crying out as she did so: "Hubert! Help! Help!”

Sir Hubert uttered a choking sound, his eyes seeking those of the Italian girl, who rewarded him with a look of utter hate and scorn, then knelt at her mistress’s side.

"Padrona! It is Gemma.”

Leda raised herself to a sitting posture and looked about her in a half-dazed manner. Her gaze drifted over Gemma, Sir Hubert, Larry Weaver. It rested for a moment upon Henry Winch’s solicitous face. It passed the doctor by, and wavered to old Job. Her arms lifted to him, her one secure refuge.

"Uncle Job! Save me, Uncle Job! Save me from the Goat-man!”

She was safe in his arms, against his heart, then. Over her head that lay on his breast, old Job’s eyes sought his friend’s. Stark amazement and dire dismay was in his own.

It was Gemma who voiced their thoughts.

"She has seen Pan! Pan is unleashed upon the world! Dio!"

She beat her breast with clenched fists, wailing.

"Take that woman to the other end of the room and make her shut up,” ordered the doctor sharply to Larry Weaver, who raised the shrieking girl and half led, half dragged her, to the other side of the table.

"Will you save me? Can you?” sobbed Leda hysterically, all her young bravado gone. "Look!”

She tore at that coronet above her smooth brow, but the old doctor stayed her hand gently.



"Wait, my dear. Until we know what this means, it may be wiser to leave that insignia of high authority where it is now.”

"These clothes!” gasped Leda.

"Most becoming,” the doctor reassured her, in a matter-of-fact voice, his eyes far away nevertheless. "Just calm yourself, my dear, and tell us exactly what has upset you.”

The tone, the direct query, calmed Leda. She withdrew from her uncle’s embrace shamefacedly, dashing away the tears of sheer terror and panic that had sprung to her brown eyes.

"Doctor, they have a monstrosity down here that they worship. A thing like a goat, but with a man’s body above the waist,” she explained, trying her best to keep the high note of hysteria from her voice. "He even had little black horns . . . and Quint called it Pan.”

A loud wail greeted the last word. Gemma, rocking her body to and fro despairingly, sobbed louder than ever.

The old physician’s face was grave. "Then these clothes and your coronet signify something?”

"I’m supposed to become the high priestess of that goat-thing.”

Suddenly Leda’s sense of humor got the better of her, now that she was back in her own party. She saw the look of solicitude plainly portrayed on the face of the secretary. Her pride braced her into a burst of laughter.

"This is too absurd,” cried out Leda. "Quint said that if I didn’t comply with their wishes, you folks would be thrown to the Pan-worshippers to be torn to bits. This masquerade is too silly for words. I mean, now isn’t it idiotic?

"Larry lend me your pistol, will you? If I get near that disgusting goat-thing again, I’m going to see what it’s made of. If it’s flesh and blood, it ought to die,”

declared Leda. "If it isn’t” — her voice faltered — "if it isn’t — the more reason I should have a weapon.”

Larry Weaver did not speak. He took the gun from the holster and gave it to her. She thrust it inside the bodice of her golden robe.

"At least, I’ve the way out,” said she. "Oh, Uncle Job, I’m afraid!”

Henry Winch came softly to her side.

"Leda — they — they haven’t dared hurt you, have they?” asked his deep, melodious voice.

Leda looked up from her uncle’s shoulder, where she had again sought refuge, met those grave eyes and shook her head. In that fleeting moment none of the previous ugly hate shone in her own eyes. With a sigh of relief, the secretary stepped back unobtrusively.

"But what, if I may ask, is this all about?” inquired Larry Weaver briskly. "I don’t want to push myself forward, sir,” said Larry to old Job, "but it appears as if we ought to try to figure things out a bit and find out what’s going to be asked of us.”

"That is very simple,” said a voice from the doorway.

Everybody turned. Quint stood there.

*‘>T1his whole proceeding is an outA rage,” cried Sir Hubert in a high, angry voice.

Quint shot a scornful look at the speaker. Then he turned to the doctor.

"Doctor Peabody, I must have the talisman Hannah Wake gave you. You know well how l have been cheated out of it. It will be well for you if you deliver it to me without further ado.”

"And if I refuse?” The doctor’s voice was low; his faded blue eyes sharply upon Quint’s determined face.

"I shall be obliged to have resort to force, which I would very much regret.”

THE PORTAL TO POWER


"I understand,” said the doctor, but made no move to deliver the talisman. "And if I give it to you, may I ask what use is to be made of it?”

Into the younger man’s eyes shot a flame of proud and fiery emotion.

"You know what that stone is — the portal to superhuman power ”

"Just what power in particular is it destined to aid in entering this mortal plane?” pursued the old doctor doggedly.

Almost fiercely Quint replied.

"Does it matter by what route, through what agency, light-hearted happiness comes to a world drowning in sorrow and pain?”

“Quint, you are evading a direct reply. There is something behind what appears simple and high-minded on your part. Your methods of attaining innocent happiness are entirely wrong; they fill me with suspicion. So,” said the old doctor with staunch determination, "I refuse to give you the talisman.”

Quint's teeth ground together. "Then I must seize it!”

"I know I am an old man, and not as strong as once I was,” said the doctor gently, “but by taking this talisman from me . . . Consider, Quint. You lose the power of entry from higher planes. Evil will be the talisman’s powers ”

“You are right. Well, perhaps it would be best for you to come with me to the high priest. He may be able to explain things better than I.”

He turned, motioning imperiously for the doctor to follow him.

"Farewell, old friend,” murmured the doctor to Job Scudder.

"Farewell?” repeated the airplane magnate, troubled.

"I do not know,” said the doctor, his smile very sweet, "whether I shall be permitted to return, or not.”

"Give me the stone, then,” whispered

Job. "At least, that may delay things a little.”

Unnoted, Leda had listened to the two men’s low voices. "Is there danger to you, Doctor, in that stone?”

"Why, yes, my dear,” said he simply.

"Then drop it inside my bodice,” she whispered. "Who could believe that / had it?”

The doctor looked at her earnest face for a moment, then leaned over her. "I leave with you,” said he softly, “the hope of the world, or its greatest menace — who knows whidi? If I do not return, child, do what your heart prompts you, with this stone.”

He followed Quint’s marching feet, his gallant old form straight, his leonine head high.

"Uncle Job! What is this talisman?" whispered Leda.

Job shook his head. “My dear, I don’t know, but John says it is something mysterious and supernatural that could do all manner of evil in the wrong hands. Also, as you may have gathered from that interchange of conversation between the doctor and Quint, the stone must be given, if it is to yield the highest results.”

Leda’s hands went to her breast, pressing into her warm flesh the small cold thing that the doctor’s hand had dropped there when he bent over her in farewell.

"Oh, what a terrible responsibility I have undertaken! Hubert!”

She withdrew herself from old Job’s arms and threw back her young shoulders under their golden webbing. At sight of her resolved and pale face Henry Winch took a step toward her, then waited, his eyes on hers.

"For all that was your fault, I forgive you, Henry Winch,” said she firmly. "And for all that was my fault, I ask your pardon.”



He stood rooted to the spot, regarding her with agonized eyes.

"I do not know what terrible thing we may yet have to face, and I do not wish to go into it with bitterness in my heart, for we may not come out of it alive.”

"Leda, my darling!”

Larry Weaver’s look at Henry Winch was grave. To Leda he said: ”If there is anything I can do, tell me. You ought to know that I am completely at your service.”

The girl hesitated, then drew herself up proudly.

"Thank you, there is nothing that any one can do for me now, I fear. I must walk alone.”

Even as she spoke, there was the clash of metal at the doorway and Quint appeared, his face dark with anger.

"The litter awaits you, Miss Scudder. Everything depends upon you now. If you can take a sensible view of things, all will go well with this entire party. If you can not, other steps must and will be taken,” said he, menace in words, voice and flashing eyes.

The Airedale was straining at the leash, muttering low growls, curling his lips back against his white teeth.

“Leda,” murmured the agonized voice of Henry Winch, "if this cur is annoying you, say so, and I’ll quiet him, at least.”

Quint cast a threatening look at the secretary.

“Don’t be a fool,” said he curtly. "Dispose of me, and find a hundred men sprung up where I stood.”

Leda intervened quickly.

"No, Henry Winch, you can do nothing for me. It is my cue for action. I must go. I see it now. It is up to me. I — I have — protection,” she said, her eyes on his, and he knew that she spoke of Larry’s automatic.

Larry himself was at her side, fists

clenched, lean face working with emotion.

"No, Larry, there must be no disturbance,” Leda cried hastily, quieting him with a touch of one hand on his arm.

"No harm will be done Miss Scudder or any of you if she proves amenable to her high destiny,” Quint declared.

Head high, as the old doctor had gone before her, the girl went outside and mounted the litter.

"Holy Virgin! We are all lost! We are in the hands of the Pan-people!” screamed the Italian girl hysterically, and fell back on the divan writhing in an agony of apprehension. "We shall never see my mistress again!”

In the silence that followed, the eyes of the secretary met those of Job Scudder incredulously. When the younger man started toward the door, drawing the gallant Airedale with him, the old magnate put out a restraining hand.

"They are too many for us,” said he in sad resignation. "We must await the event.”

CHAPTER 13

A small room, draped with embroidered velvet hangings on every side. Light fell goldenly from the glass dome in the ceiling upon a great bench on which was seated that old and reverend priest whom Leda had seen before. His benignant gaze was upon her, and he moved to one side to make place for her when she alighted from the litter. In silence, watchfully, the girl awaited his words, while the litter-bearers departed lightfooted from the room.

"We are quite alone, maiden,” said the priest in a normal tone. "We can be quite frank with each other.”

"Your frankness might begin with telling me where Doctor Peabody is,” Leda answered quickly.

W. T.— 7

THE PORTAL TO POWER


"He is already returning to your little party, in just as good shape as he went from it,” replied the priest, smiling.

"But he was threatened ”

"He should not have been,” said the priest, his face clouding over. "I fear my grandson Quint exceeds his instructions in his anxiety to bring about that which we are all aiming at.”

"Undoubtedly,” Leda observed dryly, with a shrug of her shoulders. "I fancy he was to blame for injuring our mechanic, so that he could go in the poor fellow’s place in the 'Queen’.”

"I wonder, sometimes, if the end does truly justify the means,” cogitated the priest aloud. "Well, you mention that the doctor was threatened. He has refused to deliver to us the talisman that is the connecting link between us and the Powers Beyond.”

"Well, what are you going to do about it?” asked the girl.

The priest regarded her oddly.

"We will have it in our hands sooner or later, for to gain that stone any of our little company would wade through blood, because of what that stone may mean to the world. Moreover, maiden, the physician— when he realized that we were determined to have the stone — confessed that he had hidden it in the bosom of the Great Mother.” .

The girl could not restrain from a slight start, but caught herself quickly and regarded the priest’s impassive face narrowly.

"That can mean one of two things,” he went on serenely. "He hoped to mislead us, without giving us the direct lie. It may be that his trip West is a feint to draw us off the trail, and that he has left the talisman at home, buried in the garden. Perhaps, on the other hand, he has slipped it into the bosom of the Great Mother of Humanity — a woman.”

W. T.— 8

With difficulty the girl controlled herself, but she knew that her efforts at selfcontrol had not passed unobserved.

"If you are to be frank with me, tell me why you must have that stone?”

For a long moment the high priest scrutinized the girl’s fair face thoughtfully. Then a sudden smile broke across his countenance, and he nodded his head several times.

"Your destiny is high. If you accept it, even my authority must bow to yours, for you will be the spokeswoman for the most high gods. So, my child, I will be frank.

"The stone I seek must be placed here,” and his fingers touched that hollow opening in the jeweled breastplate he wore. "It is the Portal to Power. By its judicious and consecrated use the initiated wearer may open the door to other planes of existence, and may invite other and higher beings to this plane, that the world may benefit greatly.”

"Suppose you had this stone, what would be my part to play?”

"A dedicated virgin is always a necessity when supernal powers are invoked, my child, for a lad old enough to realize the potency of chastity and yet young enough to be chaste is a difficult human being to find.”

"What do you mean by 'dedicated’?”

"Do not be afraid. We do not want blood. We are all dedicated to the same grand object, happiness for the entire world, we who have begun by worshipping Pan, the god of simple nature. You, my child, would have the felicity to embody within yourself the power, the wonders, that are now waiting disembodied, on another plane.”

"In spite of your aim, such a dedication sounds terrifying to me,” faltered the girl.

"You need not fear. Your own entity



would be maintained, except at such times as the use of the talisman would enable those great and beneficent forces to use your body for their tremendous purposes. Yours would be the part of a most exalted priestess, spokeswoman for the high gods.

"Oh, believe me, maiden, you would be bringing the world periodical abandonment to the ancient wild joy in life, such as it has not seen since the sad-faced Christian era. Can you not understand what it would mean to tired humanity to be able to escape its heavy burdens without the use of intoxicating liquors or habit-forming drugs?”

"It sounds wonderful,” Leda murmured reluctantly. "But if it is all right, why won’t the doctor give you the talisman?”

"First, because he has promised to deliver it elsewhere, and he is a man of his word. So it can not be given by him, but must be taken away, and that would never do for us, because of the mysterious qualities of the stone that carries good only when it is given. Now do you understand his attitude?”

She nodded, face thoughtful.

"I know, by the way, where the doctor has hidden the talisman.”

Keen black eyes narrowed upon the paling face of the girl.

"You know?” stammered she, and one hand went to her bosom instinctively.

The high priest’s slow smile told her that she had betrayed herself and her charge. Angry tears of chagrin clouded her eyes.

"Even if you know where it is, I can under no circumstances give it to any one, without the doctor’s permission.”

"I think his permission has been tacitly given,” suggested the priest, smiling insinuatingly. "He has given me a

hint of where it is, and he gave the stone, did he not?”

"I shall not give it up,” Leda said.

The priest’s clean-shaven lips stirred in a sigh.

"Child, you are very obstinate. In that case, we must try other methods of persuasion. You see, maiden, you must give that stone to me; it must go into its destined place,” and he touched again the hollow in his breastplate of fiery jewels.

Leda confronted him, her expression determined.

"I shall not give it up,” she pronounced definitely. "If you wish to do good with it — which I must say I doubt — you will have to stop right here, for you dare not take it from me.”

"So be it, my child. Then I must turn you over to one who can perhaps persuade you better than I.”

He rose, and beckoned.

"Follow me.”

"To whom are you taking me?”

"Pan must see you, and must decide if his power is sufficient to break the spell of evil that will rest upon the talisman if it is taken from you by force,” explained the priest sadly.

At that hidden threat, Leda grew paler. Then with compressed lips, her hand tightly against her bosom where the talisman and Larry’s lethal weapon lay together, she followed the high priest.

I T was the same room to which Quint had conducted her before. The curtain concealed the dais but it could not deaden certain sounds that caused the high priest to check his forward stride with a quick breath, his brow frowning.

Like a warning rang his hail: "Evohe, Pan!”

Behind the heavy curtain sounded tripping feet, and as the Goat-man

THE PORTAL TO POWER


whipped aside the silken drapery, Leda’s quick eye caught the fluttering garments of a woman; her ear knew a woman’s soft, mocking laughter. The Creature, thick lips twitching with sulky resentment, addressed his priest angrily.

"Why this intrusion?”

"Great Pan, is it well that you should so soon forget your high intent?” reproached the high priest. "I know — I understand — it is your prerogative — but ”

The Goat-man’s small eyes glowered for a moment, then moved ever so slowly to the golden figure of the girl who faced him, braced for she knew not what. The thick lips quirked in an impish smile.

"Has the maiden consented?” asked he.

The high priest bowed low.

"She is stubborn, great Pan. In her bosom she hides the Portal to Power, and refuses to place it where it belongs, that the world may laugh again. I have brought her to you for persuasion.”

The smile widened.

"It is well. Retire, oh bringer of good tidings. The maiden will consent,” smiled Pan, thick lips a-leer, "so you may lay upon this dais your breastplate in readiness.”

At the movement of the old man to go, Leda caught at his robe in momentary panic.

"Oh, don’t leave me alone — with — that!”

Mirth convulsed the sly features of the Goat-man.

"Give her an attendant, by all means,” he tittered. "Send her the blade slave whom she knows.”

In a moment a stumbling of feet came down the passage, and into the doorway waddled a great obesity in white drill uniform, with white chef’s cap on the tight black wool.

Leda stared, then cried out.

"Captain!”

The chef paused, looked at her in a kind of dazed surprize. Then his suetty voice murmured plaintively: “Ah lost m’ rabbit-foot. M’ Venus gave m’ rabbitfoot to me. All m’ luck went away wid dat rabbit-foot. Got to git anudder charm.”

"Captain, sit down here,” Leda ordered, and pointed to one comer of the dais where stood the Goat-man, his mouth wide in a silent laugh that displayed glittering white teeth.

The chef obeyed, sinking fatly upon the edge of the dais, and letting his triple chins telescope against his breast despondently. Leda looked at him in a kind of despair. Of what use would Captain be in any emergency? Perhaps it was for this reason that Pan had suggested him. Her eyes rose at the ugly apprehensions that assailed her, and met the watchful, puckish eyes of the travesty grinning upon her. She shuddered; the high priest was gone and she was practically alone with Pan, for Captain certainly counted for less than nothing.

"Will you sit beside Pan, maiden?” asked the Goat-man in a high, strainedly agreeable voice that rang falsely on the girl’s ears.

"Thank you. I prefer to stand where I am,” she returned coldly. "Now, what is it you want me here for?”

Her warm brown eyes flashed courageously. She was telling herself frantically that it had to be a dream after all, because it could not be true. Even what her eyes appeared to see could not be real.

The Goat-man moved slowly toward her, puckish eyes on her face mischievously.

"You will give me the talisman, maiden,” he said imperiously. "It is intended to do great and wonderful things,



and if you give it to me as you should, your reward shall be in proportion.”

She shook her head, lips a tight crimson line across her white face, as the Goat-man came nearer.

"What, you have the talisman that will make the world happy, and will not give it up?” cried Pan, his voice suddenly harsh and strident. "Maiden, you are acting with rash and unadvised boldness. Know, if you do not give to me the Portal of Power without further trouble, I must order all your party delivered over to my people. And if my people know of your stubbornness in setting you r ignorant will against the immortal gods, they will tear your friends to pieces, for my people have set their wills to bring joy to mankind, and nothing can stand in their way.”

"Oh!”

"Your golden self,” whispered Pan then sibilantly, "I shall keep for my very own self,” and laughed shrilly.

"Oh, what a beast you are!”

"Yes, and no. Shall you selfishly keep the talisman with its potentialities for blessing to mankind, and send those you love to a ghastly death at the hands of my outraged people? Or will you lay the stone willingly upon my hand and save your friends and bring blessings upon all who live today? Maiden, if I am harsh, it is because I can not let a few blind and stubborn men and women block the way of happiness for all the world.”

Leda, her hand clutching at her blouse, hesitated.

"Dare you tell me that your intentions are noble?” she demanded. "Only

a few minutes ago ” and her voice

trailed into silence, but her eyes met Pan’s accusingly.

"I tell you that this body is merely the materialization of an idea, maiden. It is real, yes. Again, it is not real. Hence

your veiled accusations are ridiculous. Moreover — is not the free companionship of man and maid a beautiful and joyful thing? If it is so little, you should be the more willing to give it up forever, to be the high priestess of joy to the world. Do not forget, maiden, that your part will be a high one.”

Leda shook an impatient head.

"You are not saying anything to the point. Whatever you are, my heart tells me that you do not mean well to the world. I — I shall keep the talisman.”

H IS white teeth bared in an animallike snarl, the Goat-man was upon her with a lithe bound, thrusting one hairy hand into her bodice.

Struggling, she shrank from that raid upon her dignity; fear and disgust sickened her at the touch of that travesty upon human shape.

"You dare not take it from me!” she cried.

His hand withdrew, holding Larry’s automatic, at which he looked in puzzled fashion. Leda, pulling away from the grasp of his free hand that had gripped her shoulder in its hairy grip, gave a little gasp, and snatched at the weapon frantically. Pan gave an ineffectual snatch, and the girl set her teeth and pulled the trigger.

Her amazed eyes saw the course of the bullet through the hairy chest of the Goat-man, and in horror and incredulity were obliged to witness the closing of the wound behind the bullet’s flight as if no injury had been made.

"Another new thing,” observed Pan, with childish interest. "Ah, you had meant it to hurt me, foolish maiden. You see, I am not real with the realness of yourself, or it would have hurt me. Now, do not be silly any longer; give me the talisman.”

THE PORTAL TO POWER


"You shall not have it!”

"Maiden, if evil follow, it will be your own stubbornness that has caused it.” He lunged at her again, once more trying to get the stone from its hiding-place. "I am saving all your friends from horrid deaths that you are too callous to save them from by your own simple act of acquiescence.”

"Oh, take it! Take it! But get away from me, for heaven’s sake,” cried out the girl hysterically. The nausea of her disgust at his unwelcome touch had completely unnerved her, combined with the amazing inefficacy of the bullet to rid her of him.

The Goat-man retired almost precipitately at her capitulation. A look of childish concern puckered his narrow brow.

"But I don’t want to take it from you,” he objected. "I want you to lay it down there beside the breast-plate. I will not even touch it, since you think I wish to bring evil to my beautiful world.”

Half sobbing, wholly soul-sick, Leda drew the talisman from her bosom and laid it on the platform near the breastplate.

Captain eyed her stupidly. He had lifted up his face with interest during her struggle with the Goat-man, and now his small, deep-set eyes followed her trembling hand as she laid the stone upon the dais.

"Is that a powerful spell, Miss Leda?” he finally asked. When he realized that the girl was too agitated to reply, he continued in a low mutter: "Mus’ git me anudder spell. Mus’ git me anudder ”

The Goat-man waved exultant hands at Leda. His high, tittering laugh sounded disagreeably triumphant, almost maliciously so.

"Now, maiden, as a reward you shall receive the highest post any maiden can

hold, in the new regime that is coming upon the world. Why do you weep? Laugh, maiden, laugh! You have wisely saved your friends, and you will soon be the happiest of the happy.”

Leda did not reply; she was sobbing hysterically.

"Come hither, priest! Take the maiden away until tonight. Maiden, replace the talisman in your bosom. The gift you have given may remain in your custody until tonight. Tonight will be the night of All Saints ” tittered the travesty.

"Evohe, Pan!” cried the old priest resonantly.

CHAPTER 14

T he Goat-man went nimbly up on the dais and jerked together the heavily embroidered damask curtains.

"You are dismissed,” said his high voice, and the clatter of his little hoofs went rattling about behind the curtain.

"Maiden, follow me,” murmured the high priest, but his request was couched in a voice so gentle, almost propitiatory, that Leda Scudder’s drooping head went up proudly, for she remembered that he had said that even his will must bow to hers if she became the spokeswoman for the unknown powers that in some mysterious manner were to be embodied in herself.

With a poise and tranquillity that she did not feel, she said to him: "I have not eaten since noon yesterday. Is part of this new regime starvation for me?”

"Gods! This is indeed an oversight,” cried the priest. "You shall be returned to your party immediately, and a meal served.”

"Yet another thing,” went on Leda, satisfied that her wishes actually meant something to the high priest. "Some kind of explanation must be made at once of this whole affair, this wholesale



kidnapping that has evidently been done under your orders.”

"Maiden chosen by Pan, you shall be obeyed. My grandson or myself shall be with you as soon as you have eaten, to answer any questions you may desire to ask. Your mind must be set completely at rest, so that you will know your own high destiny and what this means to the world."

Leda seated herself in the gilded litter and was borne back to the rest of the party. Henry Winch was first to reach her.

"Thank God, Leda! You are safely back. They have not dared any insolent tricks?” he demanded fiercely.

The girl gave him a side glance from under lowered lids, but her expression was far kinder than the secretary had had bestowed upon him since the ill-omened flight of the "Queen.”

"Perfectly safe, Henry Winch,” said she, accepting his proffered aid to alight from the litter.

Open arms and Job’s broken cry, “My little girl!”

Into that shelter Leda crept, suddenly weak and shaky from her strange experience. Her hysterical sobs filled them all with consternation. What had happened to break that proud, high spirit? Over her bowed head her uncle’s questioning gaze met the old doctor’s grave face.

"Nerve shock,” diagnosed John Peabody softly. “I suppose they took you before Pan, my child?”

“That — creature!” spat out the girl with a long shudder. "Oh, I’ve been a cowardly fool. I’ve given that horrible monstrosity the stone you put in my charge.” And with that, she went to sobbing again, uncontrollable, hysterical weeping.

"It was written,” murmured the old physician, shaking his leonine head.

Job's tender hand stroked Leda’s hair monotonously, soothingly. His lips were a thin, tight line.

"Leda — tell me — if anybody has dared lay a finger on you, I’ll throttle him,” snarled the entirely altered voice of the secretary, poised and sophisticated no longer. "Tell me, Leda!”

Job Scudder saw the flame in those eyes, and jerked his head at the secretary' in quick caution, while the doctor laid a hand restrainingly on the young man’s twitching arm. Behind them Larry Weaver’s lean face peered, lips drawn back into an ugly, menacing threat.

"There’s nothing to tell,” murmured Leda’s subdued voice at last. "He — he frightened me so — that I gave up the stone. But please don’t give a thought to that now. In a few minutes either Quint or that old priest will be here to tell us all about this place, and everything.”

"She’s had nothing to eat since lunch yesterday,” suddenly snapped the secretary. “For heaven’s sake, Leda, get something into your stomach. You’re hungry. That’s what’s the matter with your nerves.”

The old magnate nodded confirmatorily, and drew the girl to the tables.

"Here, my dear, is hot coffee. A cupful of that will do wonders for you.”

Leda complied, and gulped down the bracing coffee.

"I’d like to have that gun back, if it’s all the same to you, Miss Leda,” Larry exclaimed.

The girl smiled wanly.

"By all means, Larry. I’ve found,” said she with a hard little hopeless laugh, "that it’s no weapon to use against Pan.”

A quick interchange of glances between the men, and a lifting of Larry’s eyebrows incredulously.

"If you have no use for it,” said the pilot, tentatively, and held out his hand

THE PORTAL TO POWER


to take the automatic which the girl gave him. "I have an idea,” he continued sotto voce to Henry Winch, "that one’s aim must be pretty good to make any impression on that creature she speaks of.”

"Leda,” spoke up the doctor, drawing his pocket medicine case out thoughtfully, "I am going to give you a few pellets in an envelope. Keep them where they won’t be taken from you, child, and in case such a contingency arises as might make it necessary,” here his piercing eyes told much to Leda’s inquiring ones, "take them. Nothing on earth can harm you once you have taken these. Oh,” he added quickly, in reply to Job’s horrified look, "their action is swift and painless. I for one believe it would be better to go out at will into God’s hands than to remain helpless in the hands of those who might have power to injure my soul.”

"Thank you, Doctor John,” whispered the girl, and hid the small white envelope in her bosom.

S he withdrew herself a little from the encircling arms of her uncle, as he sat beside her on the divan, and lifted reddened eyes to look at the anxious little group about her. She drew out the stone, and held it, glistening, pulsating almost with milky opalescence now, as if with some strange life of its own.

"That’s an odd-looking thing,” commented Henry Winch, bending over to get a closer look at it. "Seems as if it were alive.”

"It is. That is, through it pulsate the living, throbbing streams of power from other planes of life. But how is it that you still possess it, if you have given it to Pan also, my child?” and the doctor pushed his heavy spectacles up and peered at the stone again.

“He told me to keep it until tonight.”

"Tonight? Tonight!” screamed the hysterical voice of Gemma, and she flung from her with a frantic gesture of impatience the chattering marmoset. "This is the night when all that is evil is abroad! Dio mio!” and she flung herself face downward on her divan, moaning pitifully.

Sir Hubert, his face tense with some secret emotion, regarded her in a kind of desperation. Finally, he crossed the room and stood, without speaking, beside her. Once he put out his hand to her shoulder, then as quickly withdrew it, flinging a swift glance at the rest of the party to see if his action had been observed. But they were all far too busy to watch Sir Hubert.

"Gemma is right. Tonight is All Hallow Eve,” murmured the old doctor, half to himself. "Like Walpurgis Night or May Eve, it is the time for powers from other planes to function here. Lord, Lord, what a hideous mess we’ve been drawn into! I blame myself for coming along with you folks, carrying that stone!”

Leda, still with the stone on her extended palm, regarded the old physician with intentness.

"Child, what do you want me to do? If I take it, they will only rob me of it in the end. And if they force it from me, the result may be tragic, for tonight this stone can be utilized to force an entry onto the earth-plane of God only knows what untrained and undisciplined forces of evil. . . . It is better that you keep it, my dear, and give it when you must. Perhaps, then, the higher powers will see fit to take a hand in this drama.”

Mechanically the girl dropped the stone back into the bosom of her golden frock. Her eyes went to Henry Winch, as if impelled by some powerful influence that she could not combat.



"If you are afraid, dear,” said the secretary softly, "let me take it.”

She shook her head slowly from side to side.

"Why? If it must be given them in the end, why not give it without friction? Perhaps, as Doctor John says, if we give it willingly. . . . Oh, they told me I was to be a kind of high priestess of their cult, and even that high priest would have to take my orders,” she remembered.

"Did Pan tell you that?”

She nodded at the old doctor, who sighed thoughtfully.

"Well,” said he with reluctance, "perhaps things may come out better than seems possible to us now. If such authority is to be vested in you, my child, the way may open for our safe escape from this strange and nerve-racking situation.”

"Gemma!” ordered Leda sharply, recovering something of her pristine poise. "Stop your noise, do! Hallowe’en isn’t going to hurt you, and it looks as if we were going to have a mighty exciting Hallowe’en party. Here, Suki!”

The whimpering marmoset scampered across the floor to her and sprang to her shoulder. Leda’s tender hand stroked the furry little body abstractedly.

Gemma, lifting her face from her cupped wet hands, looked up directly into the solicitous countenance of Sir Hubert. For a moment she appeared amazed. At his imploring look she bridled and looked quite through him, much to his obvious dismay and despair.

“While we have time to ourselves,” hurriedly observed John Peabody, “I’d better tell you people my experience with Pan.”

Leda leaned against Job’s shoulder, and appeared not to notice that Henry Winch’s hand was resting lightly on her arm. Larry walked noiselessly to and fro, but he was listening tensely not only to

the doctor, but also to the sounds in the corridor without, where the ebon-skinned litter-bearers still stood beside the gilded litter.

"The high priest asked me directly for the stone, and when I refused, took me to Pan. There is an interesting anomaly ”

"Is that what you’d call him?” Leda wanted to know disgustedly. "I call him a horrible, unnatural monster. Ugh!” she shuddered, the memory of his groping hairy hand returning to her sickeningly.

"Monster he may be, yet not purely physical monster,” mused the old doctor. “He is a splendid example of what consciously directed will-power and occult knowledge can do in the way of embodying an idea in a material form.”

"Do you actually mean,” interrupted Larry Weaver truculently, "that this Pan is merely an idea? From what you’ve told me, he is just plain matter.”

"Matter, of course,” responded the old doctor patiently. "But the entirety of him is the massed-together ancient belief in his existence. Without it, he simply could not be. Hence, I call him an idea.”

Larry snorted.

"Can you kill an idea with a couple of bullets?” he inquired pointedly.

The doctor regarded him with gravity.

"Yes . . . and no, Larry.”

"It’s the 'yes’ I’m interested in,” growled the air pilot.

"You see, so much depends upon the idea. If it is embodied in something material, and that material thing is destroyed when it is believed to be indestructible ”

"I think I get you. And the 'no’?”

“Sometimes the embodiment of an idea, when destroyed, leaves the idea itself stronger than ever. Christianity is an example of this; the Great Master

THE PORTAL TO POWER


was, apparently, slain, but He left behind Him an idea that has revolutionized the world.”

The airman, his keen face darkly musing, turned away.

"Go on, John, with your interview with Pan. We don’t know how long a time we may have without interruption,” Job urged.

"Oh, yes, yes. So the high priest took me to Pan. Pan began in a most friendly manner until I positively declared myself out of any occult experiments that might be made. Then he merely tittered at me, and said he would be pleased to send me away with the rest of the party . . . except one member.”

The doctor’s look was significant. Gemma whipped one hand to her lips as she regarded her young mistress, whose lips compressed as her warn biown eyes met the old doctor’s squarely.

“The dirty dog!” ejaculated HenryWinch hotly. "Does he think for a moment that we would go away and leave Leda behind?”

"Just the same, I believe we would be wise to let him think just that,” suddenly whispered Larry Weaver, approaching the little group.

"Are you mad?” snapped old Job, with an irate glare at the pilot.

"Not a whit,” responded the lattter, still in a lowered voice. "If we can make them think that Leda actually wishes to remain, and that she wants us sent away because we might interfere with her actions ... we might get them to put the 'Queen’ up on that plateau again, and we might all ”

"So childishly simple!” growled Henry Winch. "Of course, the glass walls would melt before us when we wanted to go!”

“I have a theory as to that,” doggedly replied Larry-.

The old physician beat one fist into the other palm.

"Of course! I have it!” He lowered his voice to a whisper. "Leda can go to see us off, and once we are up there, Larry can hold off the bunch at the head of the steps with his gun, and ”

"Rigfito. Only it will be I who will hold them off,” declared Henry Winch with a touch of fine hauteur. "It is my right.” And his eyes sought those of old Job.

"Right nothing. Your privilege, you may mean,” scowled Larry. "Well, I’ve got the gun, haven’t I?”

"In case our plans fail ” Leda

faltered, nervously.

"My child, you have what I gave you, and they will mean freedom for you from any situation that may complicate matters beyond our power to remedy.”

"That’s putting it very prettily,” groaned Henry Winch, "but it does seem to me that we ought to be able to get Leda away in safety.”

The girl turned her face upward and looked at him gravely for a long moment. Then, meeting his ardent, anxious eyes squarely, she smiled very sweetly. Her face, as she made sure of the small envelope in her bosom, was so absorbed and distant, that Henry Winch turned away from her with a kind of groan, as if he could not bear to look upon it.

"Larry, you’ve our only weapon, it appears. Do not forget, in our plans, that you alone can pilot the 'Queen’, so you must take the best care of yourself, for the sake of your young mistress,” warned Doctor Peabody.

Henry Winch began to pace the room by Larry’s side, and the two men who loved Leda Scudder started talking very animatedly together. Leda’s eyes were on them, and a half -puzzled look passed



over her piquant face as she saw them all at once clasp hands firmly, looking at each other with such warm looks that her heart felt lighter and safer in their love for her. It appeared to her that they had

very much to say to each other, and she continued watching them until a clatter of spears at the doorway sounded, and in the opening stood the high priest, looking at them expectantly.

The startling denouement will be told in the thrilling chapters which bring this story to a conclusion in next month's WEIRD TALES

A W eird 'Tale of the Sea

THE BOAT ON THE BEACH

By KADRA MAYSI

T HE life-guards watched her, every night, come down the boardwalk from the beach hotel, cross the dunes obliquely, and go to sit in the boat.

They talked about her — idly, but speculatively, as lonely men talk about the smallest thing which crosses their horizon — and they agreed that "she wasn’t badlooking.”

She was a slim -&oman — probably somewhere in the thirties — a slim woman, dressed all in white, with a lot of wavy, blue-black hair. They noticed that her hair was unusually beautiful and most unusually abundant. They noticed that she had narrow feet in the low-heeled, onestrap white kid pumps, and slender ankles above them. They noticed that she wore no color on her clothes, her cheeks, or lips.

One day she turned and looked directly up when the boy in the observation room had the glass trained upon her. The boy fell back a step and said, "Good God!”

When the others asked him what the matter was, he said, "I saw her eyes.” They asked him what color her eyes were and what was the trouble with them. He said, "They’re big, and I think they’re black as her hair, but they look — they look — well, they look like you’d expea the eyes of somebody nailed on a cross to look!”

She did not look up again, but every evening, before dark, she came down and crossed the dunes and sat in the lifeguards’ boat for several hours. And the life-guards talked about her — idly, when they were not discussing the far more important topic of the latest maritime disaster.

For this was just three weeks after the passenger steamer Astarte had sprung a leak and foundered — in foul weather — just a few hundred miles off the coast. For some reason, which the surviving members of her crew could not satisfaaorily explain, her S.O.S. had not been sent out in what her surviving passengers

THE BOAT ON THE BEACH


and the public considered time enough to bring her aid. More than fifty per cent of those on board had perished either in the launching of the lifeboats or in the stormy, bitter cold of the days before that pitiful flotilla was picked up by the rescue ships.

Shipping boards and owners, passengers and reading public, investigated, questioned, promised explanations, threatened suits, wrote to the papers. And when they were through nobody knew any more than they had known at first. For the only man who bad that secret locked under the breast of his blue uniform had done his best — whether right or wrong — and had gone down on the bridge of his ship.

It was a far more important topic than idle discussion of a slim woman in white who sat alone in a boat on the beach from sunset until the three-quarter moon had passed high overhead toward the west.

The life-guards were discussing it gravely, humbly, understandingly, as beseemed men who know that the sea has crises too great for any man to meet.

The boarders at the beach hotel — most of whom had never taken a longer sea voyage than that afforded by the six-mile ferry from the mainland to the island — were discussing it shrilly, assertively, not hesitating to censure and to state what should or should not have been done.

But everybody was discussing it — even the eight-year-old small boy who came every day from the nearest cottage to inspect the life-guard station, to mount the lookout ladders, to climb into the boats, to help the sunburned men in white wash, paint, scrub brass, and oil the heavy twowheel carriages so that they might be, momentarily, ready to be launched upon their runway to the sea.

The small boy knew that a boat had sunk — a big boat, full of men and women and little boys and girls. His daddy had

said they were drowned because the captain had not sent a wireless off in time. But the oldest life-guard — the little one with the bow-legs and the grizzled hair that stood up straight — had said: "Sonny, all a man can do is do his best.’’ The small boy understood, too, and, privately, he agreed with the life-guard rather than with his daddy. He was in the third grade — would be when school opened again — and he practised writing on the beach "A-S-T-A-R-T-E.”

One morning while he was laboriously tracing it the lady in the ^sleeveless white silk dress came up behind him. She said:

"You, too?”

And, not understanding but liking her voice, he looked up and smiled at her with his wide "governor’s gates” of missing teeth.

She said: "Will you come down to the drug store and eat an ice cream cone with me?”

At the counter she said: "What do you want?”

He chose a strawberry one and asked politely: "What do you want?”

She looked at him with her wide black eyes, and the soda jerker heard her say: "A little boy like you — for a sea anchor!"

But she ordered another strawberry cone and then, for some reason, did not eat it and asked him if he would be kind enough to eat it for her.

That evening she came down, as usual, along the walk, across the sandhills. Looking up over the dunes from the boat she saw the sea-oats etched in golden grain and sheaf against the sky. Sunset, out on the back beaches, had set the marsh aflame. Up to the zenith its wastrel opals spattered the western clouds. East, the giant copper disk of the moon came out of the sea.

She sat there so long — so long — with her arms clasped around her knees. The wind was whipping her thin white dress



and loosening strands of her long black hair. But her body did not move. To the life-guard up in the observation tower she looked a woman carved in stone. She saw the moon go higher and cut, in the sea’s green jungle, a silver road. It stretched from the climbing planet straight to the boat on the beach. Her brain was grasping at scattered thoughts as a drowning person grasps drifting straws. She was half-remembering queer old lines — things that nobody reads nowadays. Who wrote

“ wished that the ebbing tide

Would bear me away on its bosom To the ocean far and wide?”

The life-guard up in his conning-place remembered that next night would be the full moon and the flood tide. He looked again to see that the boat, on its heavy carriage, was well above the high tide mark. It was well above it, there in the moonlight, with that lonely figure sitting in the stern.

The small boy, lying on his stomach on a sand dune just a hundred yards away, was watching too. He had seen the red moon rise and throw that path across the sea to the boat. Being a child and nearer to God, his vision was clearer than theirs. He saw what the life-guard did not see — what the slim woman in the boat did not see although she looked for it with eyes which bore witness to her crucifixion every night. He had been watching every night — the small boy on the dune. It had happened every night — and it was happening again. But the woman in the boat sat, marble-still. The wind moved , only her dress and her hair. She seemed to think that she was alone at the end of that long moon-sequined path.

F lood tide foamed on the beach next night — brimmed the gutters and shallow pools — washed the sides of the outpost dunes into new, concave, wavecarved shapes.

Just before sunrise the lookout saw that the boat on the beach was gone. The man who had had the night watch reported having seen it shortly before midnight. Tide had turned three hours before that time and it was then well above the water. Anyway, it was an eight-man boat and it took two husky ones to launch it. Yes; he was sure he had seen it at elevenfifty p. m. He was absolutely sure — for the woman in white had been sitting in it then.

The two life-guards who went down to investigate found the heavy carriage with its two broad-tired wheels, its chassis, pole, and ropes, well out in the surf of the now incoming tide. That in itself proved that someone had taken the boat. Had the flood tide, coming higher than usual, washed it out, it would have taken the boat alone and not the carriage with its sand-imbedded wheels. Some persons — for the strongest life-guard could not alone roll that carriage down the shingle — had rolled it out into the surf deep enough to launch it.

With one man hauling on its rope and one pushing on the pole, they got it back to its place high on the beach. Starting up the boardwalk, they met a group of men from the hotel. The manager himself was one of them and he was speaker.

'We’ve just been to the station to report a woman missing. One of the ladies didn’t come in last night. Can you help us?”

"What did she look like? We’ll send a man out on the beach and send a boat out, too, right away.”

"She was a slim woman, with a lot of dark hair. And she was dressed all in white.”

"That’s the woman who sits in the boat,” said the grizzled life-guard. And the younger one added:

THE BOAT ON THE BEACH


"She was in it last night. Sawyer said he saw her there just before midnight.”

"What boat? Where’s the boat?” demanded the manager.

"The station boat that sits on its carriage just across the dunes. She’s been coming down and sitting in it for hours every night.”

"Where is it now?”

"We’d like you to tell us that. Somebody rolled the carriage down the beach and launched it sometime between midnight and daybreak.” •

"And you say a slim woman — a woman in white — was sitting in it last night?"

"Sawyer saw her in it at eleven-fifty.”

"But, great God,” said the manager, "that was Mrs. Card!”

"What Mrs. Card? You don’t mean ”

"Yes; I do mean,” said the manager. "That was the Mrs. Card — wife (I should say widow) of Captain Card of the steamship Astarte.”

"I hadn’t heard she was here,” one of the coast-guards said.

"She registered under a different name,” answered the manager. "She wanted to be quiet, and that was the only way. But she told me who she was and why she was doing it. Do you think we’ll find her on the island or do you think ?”

Nobody said what he thought, but they all were thinking hard. Not one of them failed to wonder whether the theft of a seaworthy boat, by parties unknown, and the suicide of a woman beside herself with grief might not be unrelated incidents occurring only by coincidence on the same night.

Within thirty minutes there were half a dozen volunteer boats, as well as the station boats, out past the breakers, and posses were patrolling the beach and every foot of the island.

But midday came without a trace of lost woman or lost lifeboat.

T he oldest guard was in the lookout room when the little boy climbed the ladder. He usually came earlier, but he had been following the search. The station was quiet, for all the men except the lookout and the wireless operator were engaged in that search.

He climbed the ladder — the little boy did— and stuck a tow-head in a cap much too large for it into the door of the lookout room. And the grizzled lookout dropped the glasses in his hand and stared as if he saw a ghost.

"Godamighty! Where’ d* you get it? Where’d you get that cap, Buddy?”

The little boy took it off and, proudly, held it out to him. And the man set it on one gnarled fist and turned it slowly, unbelievingly, around with the other hand.

It was the regulation blue and white cap of a passenger steamship’s officer. Its gold braid and insignia told those who knew the sea that it was a master’s cap. And the lettering above its vizor told anyone who read that it was property of the "S. S. Astarte

The lifeguard was still turning it, slowly, unbelievingly.

"''NTiere’d you get it, Buddy?”

"On the beach — where the man dropped it while he was shoving the boat last night.”

"What man. Buddy?”

"The man who came and took the boat and the lady away with him, the same man who used to come and sit, every night, in your boat with her.”

Landsmen have always called sailormen a superstitious folk. This is as it should be, for superstition — like everything else — lends itself to the individual interpretation. And those who go down to the sea in ships know well enough that there



occur phenomena which are outside landsmen’s experience.

So the old life-guard turned the cap in his rope-gnarled, salt-scarred fingers.

"Tell me about it, Buddy. Sure you didn’t dream it?”

"No, sir. I was wide awake, sitting out on the sandhill there. Nights that mother and daddy go to the hotel dances I stay out until the music stops, then run back home before they get there.”

"Tell me what you saw. You say you’ve seen him before?”

"Oh, yes; he’s come every night since the lady came. I don’t know which side he comes from. I never see him until he’s on the beach, at the edge of the waves, right where the end of the road of moonlight is. He goes and sits in the boat with her. But she never seemed to see him before. Perhaps she saw him last night because the moon was so bright and big.”

"She saw him?”

"Yes, she saw him. She held out her arms to him, and he came across the beach and put his arms around her. I watched him launch the boat and, when it was afloat, jump in it with her. I thought he had a right to do it because he was dressed like an officer.”

"He was dressed like an officer?”

"Yes; like the captain of the ferry that brought us over here. He had a blue uniform with gold braid on his cuffs. And he had this cap. He dropped it on the beach. Can I keep it?”

The telephone bell. It was the hotel manager asking whether there was yet any news of boat or woman.

"No; not yet,” said the grizzled guard;

[THE END]

============================================================
LUCIFER JOHN D
by Swain
============================================================
and, after he shut the telephone, he handed the blue cap back to the little boy.

"Yes; you can keep it, Buddy,” he said, "because — there won’t be any news!”

Lucifer *

By JOHN D. SWAIN

T HE notorious Remsen Case was table talk a year or so ago, although few today could quote the details offhand. Because of it, half a

From Weird Tales, November, 1923.

dozen men were discussing psychic trivialities, in a more or less desultory way. Bliven, the psychoanalyst, was speaking.

"It all hinges on a tendency which is perhaps best expressed in such old saws

LUCIFER


as: 'Drowning men clutch at straws,' 'Any port in a storm,’ or, 'A gambling chance.’

"When men have exhausted science and religion, they turn to mediums, and crystal-gazers, and clairvoyants, and patent medicines. I knew an intelligent pharmacist who was dying of a malignant disease. Operated on three times. Specialists had given him up. Then he began to take the nostrums and cure-alls on his own shelves, although he knew perfectly well what they contained — or could easily enough have found out. Consulted a lot of herb doctors, and longhaired Indian healers, and advertising specialists.”

"And, of course, without result,” commented the little English doctor.

"I wouldn’t say that,” said Bliven. "It kept alive the forlorn spade of hope in his soul. Better than merely folding his hands and waiting for the inevitable! He was just starting in with a miraculous Brazilian root, when he snuffed out. On the whole, he lived happier, and quite possibly longer, because of all the fake remedies and doctors he spent so much money on. It’s all in your own mind, you know. Nothing else counts much.”

"All fakes, including the records of the P. S. R.,” nodded Holmes, who lectured on experimental psychology.

The little doctor shook his head deprecatingly.

"I shouldn’t go as far as that, really,” he objected; "because, every now and then, in the midst of their conscious faking, as you call it, with the marked cards and prepared slates, the hidden magnets and invisible wires and all, these mediums and pseudo-magicians come up against something that utterly baffles them. I have talked with a well-known prestidigitator who has a standing bet of a hundred guineas that he can duplicate the

manifestations of any medium; and yet he states that every now and then he finds himself utterly baffled. He can fake the thing cleverly, you understand; but he can not fathom the unknown forces back of it all. It is dangerous ground. It is sometimes blasphemy. It is blundering in where angels fear to tread.”

"Piffle!” snorted Bliven. "The subconscious mind explains it all; and we have only skirted the edge of our subject. When we have mastered it, we shall do things right in the laboratory that will put every astrologer and palmist and teaground prophet out of business.”

Nobody seemed to have anything to answer, and the psychoanalyst turned to the little doctor.

"You know this, Royce,” he asserted, a bit defiantly.

"I don’t pretend to follow you newera chaps as closely as I ought; but I recall an incident in my early practise that is not explicable in the present-day stage of your science, as I understand it.”

Bliven grunted.

"Well — shoot!” he said. "Of course, we can’t check up your facts, but if you were an accurate observer, we may be able to offer a plausible theory, at least.”

Royce flushed at his brusk way of putting it, but took no offense. Every one makes allowances for Bliven, who is a good fellow, but crudely sure of himself, and a slave to his hobby.

"It happened a long, long time ago,” began Royce, "when I was an intern in a London hospital. If you know anything about our hospitals, you will understand that they are about the last places on earth for anything bizarre to occur in. Everything is frightfully ethical, and prosy, and red-tapy — far more so than in institutions over here, better as these are in many ways.

"But almost anything can happen in



London, and does. You love to point to New York as the typical Cosmopolis — because it has a larger Italian population than has Rome, a larger German than Berlin, a Jewish than Jerusalem, and so forth. Well, London has all this, and more. It has nuclei of Afghans, and Turkomans, and Arabs; it has neighborhoods where conversation is carried on in no known tongue. It even has a synagogue of Negro Jews — dating certainly from the Plantagenet dynasty, and probably earlier.

"Myriads spend all their lives in London, and die knowing nothing about it. Sir Walter Besant devoted twenty years to the collecting of data for his history of the city, and confessed that he had only a smattering of his subject. Men learn some one of its hundred phases passing well; Scotland Yard agents, buyers of old pewter or black letter books, tea importers, hotel keepers, solicitors, clubmen; but outside of their own little pool broods the eternal fog, hiding the real London in its sticky, yellow embrace. I was born there, attended its university, practised for a couple of years in Whitechapel, and migrated to the fashionable Westminster district; but I visit the city as a stranger.

"So, if anything mysterious were to happen anywhere, it might well be in London; although, as I have said, one would hardly look for it in one of our solid, dull, intensely prosaic hospitals.

"Watts-Bedloe was the big man in my day. You will find his works in your medical libraries, Bliven; though I dare say he has been thrust aside by the onmarch of science. Osteopathy owes a deal to him, I think; and I know that Doctor Lorenz, die great orthopedist of today, freely acknowledges his own debt,

“►tIhere was brought to us one day a

A peculiarly distressing case; the only child of Sir William Hutchison, a widower, whose hopes had almost idolatrously centered in this boy, who was a cripple. You would have to be British to understand just how Sir William felt. He was a keen sportsman; played all outdoor games superlatively well, rode to hounds over his own fields, shot tigers from an elephant’s back in India, and on foot in Africa, rented a salmon stream in Norway, captained the All-English polo team for years, sailed his own yacht, bred his own hunters, had climbed all the more difficult Swiss peaks, and was the first amateur to purchase and operate a biplane.

"So that to natural parental grief was added the bitter downfall of all the plans he had for this boy; instructing him in the fine art of fly-casting, straight shooting, hard riding, and all that sort of thing. Instead of a companion who could take up the life his advancing years were forcing him to relinquish, in a measure, he had a hopeless cripple to carry on, and end his line.

"He was a dear, patient little lad, with the most beautiful head, and great, intelligent eyes; but his wrecked little body was enough to wring your heart. Twisted, warped, shriveled — and far beyond the skill of Watts-Bedloe himself, who had been Sir William’s last resort. When he sadly confessed that there was nothing he could do, that science and skilful nursing might add a few years to the mere existence of the little martyr, you will understand that his father came to that pass which you, Bliven, have illustrated in citing the case of the pharmacist. He was, in short, ready to try anything; to turn to quacks, necromancers, to Satan himself, if his son might be made whole!

W. T.— 8

Next Month

Doa't miss this group of fine stories scheduled to appear in the January issue of

[THE END]

============================================================
THE WOLF OF ST
by Bonnot Seabury Quinn
============================================================
Weird Tales on sale December i.

The Lost Lady

by Seabury Quinn

A beautiful white dancer in the temple of Angkor wa.3 persecuted by the fiendish Doctor Sun Ah Poy.

The Horror from the Hills

by Frank Belknap Long, Jr.

A vivid and powerful story of shuddery horror, a gooseflesh tale about a stone idol brought from China.

The Master Has a Narrow Escape

by H. Warner Munn

A tale of the werewolf clan. Tho Thirty Years’ War, and the first case of witchcraft in New England.

The Necromantic Tale

by Clark Ashton Smith

An occult story of much power, in which Sir Roderick Hagdon's life is tied to the personality of an infamous, long-dead ancestor.

Passing of a God

by Henry S. Whitehead

A weird story of surgery and the dark rite3 of the Black people in the land of Haiti.

The Galley-Slave

by Lieutenant Edgar Gardiner

An unusual story of a man who retained a vivid memory of the voyage of Odysseus.

The Avenging Shadow

by Arlton Eadie

Practising forbidden arts in mediaeval Naples, Taso Vitetlt sought to outwit the Prince »f Darkness, forgetting that “Ho who sups with the Devil must have a long spoon."

These are some of the super-excellent stories that will appear in the January issue of


January Issue on Sale December 1

Subscription Rates:

w. T— 9

$2.50 a year in U. S. or possessions; Canadian $3.00; Foreign $3.50.

840 N. Michigan Ave. Chicago. 111.



"Oh, naturally he had sought the aid of religion. Noted clergy of his own faith had anointed the brave eyes, die patient lips, the crooked limbs, and prayed that God might work a miracle. But none was vouchsafed. I haven’t the least idea who it was that suggested the Luciferians to Sir William.”

"Luciferians? Devil-worshippers?” interrupted Holmes. "Were there any of them in your time?”

"There are plenty of them today; but it is the most secret sea in the world. Huysmans in La-Bas has told us as much as has any one; and you know perfealy well, or should, that all priests who believe in the Real Presence, take the utmost care that the sacred wafer does not pass into irresponsible hands. Many will not even place it on the communicant’s palm; but only in his mouth. For the stolen Host is essential to the celebration of the infamous Black Mass which forms the chief ceremony of the Luciferian ritual. And every year a number of thefts, or attempted thefts, from the tabernaculum, are reported in the press.

"Now the theory of this strange sea is not without a certain distorted rationality. They argue that Lucifer, Star of the Morning, was cast out of Heaven after a great battle, in which he was defeated, to be sure* but not destroyed, nor even crippled. Today, after centuries of missionary zeal, Christianity has gathered only a tithe of the people into its fold; the great majority is, and always has been, outside. The wicked flourish, often the righteous stumble; and at the last great battle of Armageddon, the Luciferians believe that their champion will finally triumph.

"Meanwhile, and in almost impenetrable secrecy, they praaise their infamous rites and serve the devil, foregathering preferably in some abandoned church,

which has an altar, and above it a crucifix, which they reverse. It is believed that they number hundreds of thousands, and flourish in every quarter of the world; and it is presumed that they employ grips and passwords. But amid so much that is conjecture, this faa stands clear: the cult of Lucifer does exist, and has from time immemorial.

"I never had the least idea who suggested them to Sir William. May have been some friend who was a secret devotee, and wished to make a proselyte. May have been an idle word overheard in a club — or a penny bus. The point is, he did hear, discovered that an occult power was claimed by their unholy priests, was ready to mortgage his estate or sell his soul for his little chap, and somehow got in touch with them.

"The faa that he managed it, that he browbeat Watts-Bedloe into permitting one of the fraternity to enter the hospital at all, is the best example I can give of his despairing persistence. At that, the physician agreed only upon certain seemingly prohibitive conditions. The fellow was not to touch the little patient, nor even to draw near his bed. He was not to speak to him, or seek to hold his gaze. No phony hypnotism, or anything like that.

"Watts-Bedloe, I think, framed the conditions in the confident hope that they would end negotiations; and he was profoundly disgusted when he learned that the Luciferian, though apathetic, was not in the least deterred by the hardness of the terms. It appeared that he had not been at all willing to come under any circumstances; that he tried persistently to learn how Sir William had heard of him, and his address, and that he had refused remuneration of any sort. Altogether, a new breed of faker, you see!

''There were five of us in the room at


the time appointed, besides the little patient, who was sleeping peacefully. Fact is, Watts-Bedloe had taken the precaution of administering a sleeping-draft, in order that the quack might not in any possible way work upon his nervous system. Watts-Bedloe was standing by the cot, his sandy hair rumpled, his stiff mustache bristling, for all the world like an Airedale terrier on guard. The father was there, of course; and the head nurse, and a powerful and taciturn orderly. You can see that there wasn’t much chance of the devil-man pulling off anything untoward!

"When, precisely on the moment, the door opened and he stood before us, I suffered as great a shock of surprize as ever in my life; and a rapid glance at my companions’ faces showed me that their amazement equaled mine. I don’t know just what type we had visualized — whether a white-bearded mystic clad in a long cloak with a peaked hat bearing cabalistic symbols, or a pale, sinister and debonair man of the world, such as George Arliss has given us, or what not; but certainly not the utterly insignificant creature who bowed awkwardly, and stood twirling a bowler hat in his hands as the door closed behind him.

"He was a little, plump, bald man of middle age, looking for all the world like an unsuccessful green-grocer, or a dealer in butter and cheese in a small way. Although the day was cool, with a damp yellow fog swirling over the city, he perspired freely, and continually wiped his brow with a cheap bandanna. He seemed at once ill at ease, yet perfectly confident, if you know what I mean. I realize that it sounds like silly rot; but that is the only way I can describe him. Utterly certain that he could do that for which he had come, but very much wish-

( Continued on page 853)

851 ’

loUiCan Leam\

HYPNOTISM

...or No Cost

D ON'T be unpopular, lonesome, or unhappy a minute longer. Now you can make your life what you want it to be — now you can win admiration, success and big money — through the strange power of hypnotism. I'll show you how to use this great force to help you master every situation or The Five Day Trial is FREE!

In Just a tew hours I'll teach you the hidden secrets of Hjpnotum. — the methods used by the great operators — the amazing things you can accomplish once you understand this mighty power. You can uso it to overcome obstacles, achieve your fondest ambitions and become MASTER of yourself, friends and acquaintances — either sex. See for yourself how Hypnotism can banish fear, worry and opposition — improve your memory — increase your earnings — and force others to givo you the good things in life you deserve!

In hl3 startling NEW book. The Science of Hypnotism, the world famous hypnotist — Prof. L. E. Young — reveals the most carefully guarded secrets of this fascinating subject. He not only explains the methods of noted hypnotists, step by step — but tells clearly all about the nine stages of hypnotism, the Hypnotic Mirror, Mental Telepathy, how to select your subjects, magnetic healing, methods of hypnotizing, how to waken the subject, how to make money out of hypnotism t

Mysteries of Hypnotism Revealed

HowtoHypnotize at aqlanco Susceptible Subjects

How to Hypnotize by Telephone

How to Give an Entertainment

How to Make Others Obey You

OvercominsBad Habits

How to do Dozens of Hypnotic Peats

Use of Hypnotism in Operations

Try 5 Days FREE —

Send No Money

c So confident are wa that Prof. Younsr and hia (treat book will quickly teach yon the science of hypnotism, that we will send you a copy without one cent in advance! Simply clip and mail the coupon below. When the book arrives pay the postman the special lowprice of $2.60 plus few cents postage. Then test the powers of Hypnotism 5 days! If not amazed and de.tsrhted return the book and money will be refunded at oncel Mail the coupon now. 1

FRANKLIN PUBLISHING CO.

800 N. Clark SI., Dept. W-860, Chicago

I —

Franklin Publishing: Co., Dopt. W-860 800 N. Clark St., Chicago, Illinois.

Please send me your amazing new book — The Science of Hypnotism — by Prof. Young. When the book arrives I'll pay the postman only $2.50 plus postage. If I am not satisfied after 5 days' trial, I may return the book and you are to refund my money.

Name 1

Street and No,

Town state

If you are likely to be out when postman calls send $2.50 with coupon and we'll pay delivery charges. Customers outside 0. S. must send cash with order.



( Continued, from page 126 )

views down to the Wild West thrillers, are hide-bound and hog-tied with traditions of unutterable dullness.”

W. Billy Barbe, of San Antonio, Texas, writes to the Eyrie: "Weird Tales is now reaching an amazing stage, from the standpoint of present-day American fictitious literature. Magazines that depend almost entirely upon a universal appeal to the imaginative and more or less secreted side of the human race generally falter in their stride a bit, sooner or later; yet W eird Tales seems to be increasing rather than decreasing in popularity. I have perused Weird Tales for over seven years, and although I am of a very restless and impatient disposition, I have never tired of the periodical. There is a very good reason for this: Weird Tales, unlike so many other magazines, has not altered the original type of the contents that it first started out with, but is even now publishing stories of the weird, bizarre and unusual order; while many other magazines, not so successful today, have, for commercial reasons, filled their pages with either lewd, risque and racy sex-appeal stories, or with the soft, dove-eyed love stories of grandmother’s day, thinking thus to increase the circulation. I wonder if it would not be possible for you to publish as a reprint A. Merrit’s story, The Woman of the Wood. That is the most beautiful and yet the most fascinating story that has even been published in Weird Tales. Even now, although I lost my copy of the magazine that contained the story some time ago, I can close my eyes and become enraptured by the mere thought of its dramatic beauty. Should you see fit to comply with my request, you will do a huge army of my friends, as well as myself, an enormous and generous favor.”

Readers, what is your favorite story in this issue of Weird Tales? The Druid’s Shadow, by Seabury Quinn, was your favorite in the October issue, as shown by your votes and letters to the Eyrie; with Edmond Hamilton’s story, The Mind-master, in second place.

MY FAVORITE STORIES IN THE DECEMBER WEIRD TALES ARE:

Story Remarks

(1) :

( 2 )

( 3 )

I do not like the following stories:

(1) Why?

( 2 )

r

It will help us to know what kind of stories | you want in Weird Tales if you will fill out this coupon and mail it to The Eyrie, Weird Tales, 840 N. Michigan Ave.,

Chicago, 111. *

I

Reader’s name and address:


m

( Continued from page 831) ing that he were anywhere else. I heard Watts-Bedloe mutter 'my word!’ And I believe he would have spat disgustedly — were such an act thinkable of a physician in a London hospital!

“^TpHE Luciferian priest turned to

A Sir William. When he spoke, it seemed entirely in keeping with his appearance that he should take liberties with his aspirates. Tm ’ere, m’lord. And h’at your service.’

"Watts-Bedloe spoke sharply. 'Look here, my man!’ he said. "Do you pretend to say that you can make this crippled child whole?’

"The strange man turned his moist, pasty face, livid in the fog murk, toward the specialist. * ’E that I serves can, and will. I’m a middleman, in a manner of speaking. A transmitter. Hit’s easy enough for ’im, but I don’t advise it, and I warns you I’m not to be ’eld responsible for ’ow ’E does it.’

"Watts-Bedloe turned to Sir William. ’Let’s have an end to the sickening farce,’ he said curtly. 'I need fresh air!’

"Sir William nodded to the little man, who mopped his brow with his bandanna, and pointed to the cot. 'Draw back the coverlet!’ he commanded.

"The nurse obeyed, after a questioning glance at Watts-Bedloe. 'Tyke off ’is nightgown,’ continued the visitor.

"Watts-Bedloe’ s lips parted in a snarl at this, but Sir William arrested him with a gesture, stepped to his son’s side, and with infinite gentleness took off the tiny gown, leaving the sleeping child naked in his bed.

"Again, as always, I felt a surge of pity sweep through me. The noble head, the pigeon breast, rising and falling softly now, the crooked spine, the little, gnarled, twisted limbs! But my attenGet Strong with

these6 improved Mmck

Realize your ambition and develop muscles of a super-man. Get strong! Easily master feats which now seem difficult — or If you want physical culture for your health's sake, this equipment Is what you need. With this special offer you save at least half. We furnish 10 cable chest expander adjustable to 200 lbs. resistance. Made of new live extra strength, springy rubber so as to give resistance you need for real muscle devolop-

£ ent. You also get a pair of patented md grips for developing powerful grip and forearms. We include wall exercising

parte which permit you to develop your book, arms and lege — a real muscle neoeselty. The head strap permits you to exercise muscles of your neck. Develop leg muscles with foot strap furnished. This gives speed, snduranoe. In addition you get specially written course containing pictures and diagrams showing how to develop any part of your body.

Act neatl

Send No Money

Sign name and address to

mail. Pay postman Sfi.i plus postage. (If you desire, send money order now and we pay postage.)

I CRUSADER APPARATUS CO. v j Dept. 4407 • Maplewood, N. J.

I accept your offer. Bend me everything described in your

I advertisement by return mail. I will pay postman $5.00 plus postage on arrival. It Is understood if I am not entirely I satisfied after examination I can return the goods and you ! will refund my money.

I Note i — C. O. D. Orders Shipped to Canada— If In Other Foreign | Country Send Cash.

j Name ........

'

j Street,.... .........

• City Stato

8*4


tion was quickly drawn back to die strange man.

"Barely glancing at the child, he fumbled at bis greasy waistcoat, Watts-Bedloe watching him meanwhile like a lynx, as he took out a crumb of chalk and, squatting down, drew a rude cirde on the floor about him; a eirde of possibly four feet in diameter. And within this cirde he began laboriously to write certain words and figures.”

"Hold on there!” spoke Bliven. "Certain words and figures? Just what symbols, please?”

"There was a swastika emblem,” Royce promptly replied, "and others familiar to some of the older secret orders, and sometimes found on Aztec ruins and Babylonian bride tablets; the open eye, for instance, and a rude fist with thumb extended. Also he scrawled the sequence 1-2-3-4-5-6-7-9 — the ‘8’ omitted, you notice — which he multiplied by 18, and again by 27, and by 36; you can amuse yourselves working it out. The result is curious. Lastly, he wrote the sentence: 'Signa te, signa, temere me tangis et angh: A palindrome, you observe; that is, it reads equally well, or ill — backward or forward."

*110005 pocus! Old stuff!” snorted Bliven.

Royce gazed mildly at him.

“Old stuff, as you say, professor. Older than recorded history. Having done this, a matter of five minutes, perhaps, with Watts-Bedloe becoming more and more restless, and evidently holding himself in with difficulty, the fellow rose stiffly from his squatting position, carefully replaced the fragment of chalk in his pocket, mopped his brow for the twentieth time, and gestured toward the cot with a moist palm. *Now cover ’im hup!’ he ordered. ’All hup; ’ead and all.*

"The nurse gently drew the sheet over the little form. We could see it rise and fall with the regular respiration of slumber. Suddenly, eyes wide open and staring at the floor, the fellow began to pray, in Latin. And whatever his English, his Latin was beautiful to listen to, and virgin pure! It was too voluble for me to follow r verbatim — I made as good a transcript as I could a bit later, and will be glad to show it to you, Bliven — but, anyhow, it was a prayer to Lucifer, at once an adoration and a petition, that he would vouchsafe before these Christian unbelievers a proof of his dominion over fire, earth, air and water. He ceased abruptly as he had begun, and nodded toward the cot. 'Hit is done!’ he sighed, and once again mopped his forehead.

" 'You infernal charlatan!’ snarled Watts-Bedloe, unable longer to contain himself. 'You’ve got the effrontery to stand there and tell us anything has been wrought upon that child by your slobbering drivel?’

"The man looked at him with lusterless eyes. 'Look for yerself, guv-ner/ he answered.

“Tt was Sir William who snatched A back the sheet from his son; and till my dying day I shall remember the unearthly beauty of what our astounded eyes beheld. Lying there, smile upon his lips, like a perfect form fresh from the hand of his Creator, his little limbs straight and delicately rounded, a picture of almost awesome -loveliness, lay the child we had but five minutes before seen as a wrecked and broken travesty of humanity."

Again Bliven interrupted explosively:

"Oh, I say now, Royce! I’ll admit you tell a ripping story, as such; you had even me hanging breathless on your climax, but this is too much! As man to man.



you can’t sit there and tell us this child was cured!”

"I didn’t say that; for he was dead.”

Bliven was speechless, for once; but Holmes spoke up in remonstrance:

"It seems strange to me that such a queer story should not have been repeated, and discussed!”

"It isn’t strange, if you happen to know anything about London hospitals,” Royce explained patiently. "Who would repeat it? Would Watts-Bedloe permit it to be known that by his permission some charlatan was admitted, and that during his devilish incantations his patient died? Would the stricken father mention the subject, even to us? Or the head nurse and orderly, cogs in an inexorable machine?

"All this took place nearly forty years ago; and it is the first time I have spoken of it. Watts-Bedloe died years back and Sir William’s line is extinct. I can’t verify a detail; but it all happened exactly as I have stated. As for the Luciferian, none of us, I think, saw him depart. He simply stole out in the slimy yellow fog, back to whatever private hell it was he came from, somewhere in London, the city nobody knows, and where anything may happen.”

DEATH

By ALICE PICKARD

I am death Infinite,

Positive, Definite ;

I call upon the young Whose gay songs have been sung ; I claim the weary old,

Whose deeds were brave and bold ; I beckon all, yet some Are reluctant to come.

12 Novels for $| >oo

These are copyright novels by well known writers. Printed on good paper with illustrated covers.

Thrilling Mystery Fiction

Each of these books is an exciting mystery or detective story. Guaranteed to hold your interest.

And you get the entire set of twelve novels for only one dollar! There is no other charge.

But — you must act immediately! The supply is limited. Right now, while you think of it, tear out this advertisement, fill in the coupon below, and return to us with $1.00 (coin, stamps or money order). The complete set of twelve novels will be mailed to you promptly, postage prepaid.

POPULAR FICTION PUBLISHING CO.,

Dept. 62, 840 N. Michigan Avo.,

Chicago, 111.

I enclose $1.00. Send me the twelve novels, postage prepaid, at once. This $1.00 is payment in full.

Name -

Address

City State



Burnt Things

( Continued from page 752 )

an unjust discharge. No proof could be offered, however.

Yesterday his charred body was found in the ruins of the factory, identification being possible by means of an old-fashioned watch he always carried. It is surprizing the body has not been discovered sooner, for it lay in plain sight, near the warehouse wall.

The mystery is heightened by the fact that several reputable people claim to have seen Barry prowling among the ruins of Como as recently as last Sunday. That this is impossible is evidenced by the watch, the hands of which stopped at twofifteen. This is the approximate time the factory’s night-shift discovered they were trapped by the flames.

The Wolf of St. Bonnot

( Continued from page 746 )

light. There is indubitably proof of true materializations being made at seances. The British Society for Psychical Research and the Societe d’Etudes Psychiques — both reliable associations of scientific men — have attested it. Very well, what makes such materializations possible?

"A spiritual being, whether it be the ghost of one once human or otherwise, possesses passions, but neither body nor parts to make them effective. Some 'ghosts’ may show themselves, others may not, and it is these latter which visit seances in hope of materialization. Of themselves they can not materialize any more than the most skilled bricklayer can construct a house, but give the artizan materials with which to build, and pouf! the house is reared before you know it. So with these spirits. A form of energy is radiated by the sitters at the seance, something definite as radio waves, yet not to be seen or touched or handled. This is called psychoplasm. If enough of it be present, the hovering ghost, spirit of demon can so change its vibrations, so compress it, as to render it solid and ponderable. In fine, he has built himself a body.

"In normal circumstances the psychoplasm returns to the bodies which gave it off, when once its work is done. Ha, but suppose the spiritual visitant is a larcener — one who so greatly desires once more to live and move and have his being in this world that he will not return that which furnishes him a corporeal body? What then?

"There lies the danger of the seance, my friend. It may unwittingly give bodily structure to a discarnate, evil entity. So it was in this case. Yes.”

"Yes?” I answered. "Well, where’s the solution of the problem you said you’d found?”

"Here, pardieu! I shall reassemble the sitters at that seance and make that thief, Gilles Gamier, give back what he stole from them. Yes, I shall most assuredly do that, and this very night.”

A ll afternoon he was busy at the tele- >■ phone, tracing down the ten members who composed the circle at Twelvetrees with Norval Fleetwood and his wife. When all had been reached and agreed to gather at Fleetwood’s town house that night, he rose wearily. "Do not wait dinner for me, my friend,” he told me sadly. "Rather would I lose a finger



than forego the little young pig the so talented Nora McGinnis roasts in the kitchen for dinner, but something more precious than roast young pigs is involved here. I shall dine at an hotel in New York, Mias."

"Why, where are you going?”

"To a booking agency of the theater.”

"A theatrical booking ”

"Precisely, exactly, quite so. I have said it. Meet me at Monsieur Fleetwood’s at ten tonight, if you please, and as you value my friendship, see to it that no one of the party leaves before I come. Au plaisir de vous revoir.”

H alf-past nine was sounding on the clock in Fleetwood’s drawing-room when de Grandin arrived. Embarrassed and ill at ease, the sitters in the seance at Twelvetrees were grouped about the room, Norval doing his best to entertain them. Hildegarde, looking pale and haggard, but showing no serious physical results of her night’s adventure, sat before the fire, and every now and then she shuddered slightly, though the room was warmed somewhat past the point of comfort. A frightened, half-expectant look was on her face, and once or twice as motor horns hooted mournfully in the street outside quick fear leaped into her eyes and she half rose from her seat with blenched cheeks and twitching, terrified lips.

With de Grandin came a tall, palefaced young man in poorly fitting evening clothes, a virtuoso’s mop of long, dark hair and deep-set, melancholy eyes. "Professor Morine, Doctor Trowbridge,” de Grandin introduced the stranger. "Monsieur Fleetwood, Professor Morine.”

"The professor is by profession a stage hypnotist,” he explained in a lower tone. “At present he is without an engagement,

IT IS NOT TOO LATE—

to read one of the most popular stories that has been printed in this magazine to date. Through popular demand we have published a cloth-bound edition of “The Moon Terror/* by A. G. Birch, to satisfy those who were not fortunate enough to read this startling story when it appeared serially in the early issues of Weird Tales.

R EAD the thrilling adventures of Dr. Ferdinand Gresham, the eminent American .astronomer, in his encounters with KwoSung-tao, high priest of the Seuen-H’sin (the Sect of Two Moons). The Seuen-H’sin are the sorcerers of China, and the most murderously diabolical breed of human beings on this earth Each turn of the page increases the suspense when you follow Dr. Gresham to take part in the hellish ceremonies in the Temple of the Moon God — when he crosses the Mountains of Fear — half starves on the dead plains of Dzunsz’chuen — swims the River of Death — sleeps in the Caves of Nganhwiu, where the hot wind9 never cease and the dead light their campfires on their journey to Nirvana. Here is a story that will thrill you.

SPECIAL OFFER

This book is beautifully bound in rich blue cloth with attractive orange-colored jacket and is for sale direct from the publishers at the special price of $1.50 postpaid.

Remember, thiB edition is limited and thia offer is good only as long as the supply lasts. Send for this fascinating book now while it is fresh in your mind.

Weird Tales, Book Dept., M-33

840 N. Michigan Ave„ Chicago, Illinois,

Enclosed find $1.50 (or cloth-bound copy of THE MOON TERROR at publishers’ price.

Name

Address

City State.



but the gentlemen at the theatrical bureau d’enregistrement recommend his talents without reserve. His fee for tonight will be one hundred dollars. You agree, Monsieur?” he looked inquiringly at Fleetwood.

"If it will help cure Hildegarde it’s cheap at twice the price.”

"Very good, let us then say one hundred and fifty. Remember, the professor can secure no advertisement from tonight. Moreover, he has promised to forget all which transpires within this house.”

"All right, all right,” Fleetwood answered petulantly; "let’s get started.”

'"Ires bien. All is prepared in the farther room? Good. If you will kindly make excuse to have Madame Hildegarde leave the room a moment?”

Norval whispered something in his wife’s ear, and as they left the apartment together de Grandin addressed the company:

"Messieurs, Mesdames, we are assembled here tonight in an endeavor to duplicate the conditions obtaining when Madame Fleetwood became first indisposed. Upon my honor I assure you no advantage will be taken, but it is necessary that you all submit to a state of light hypnosis. I shall stand by and personally see that all goes well. Do you agree?”

One after another the guests reluctantly acquiesced in the proposal until Mazie Noyer was reached. "I won’t,” she answered shortly. "I’ll not be a party to any such ridiculous proceeding. You just want to get me in that man’s power to make me a laughing-stock. I know! No, indeed, I’ll not consent!”

"Mademoiselle,” de Grandin protested, "do you not care to see Madame Fleetwood restored to health? You assume a great burden by refusing.”

"I don’t care whether Hildegarde recovers or not. She can die before I’ll consent to being hypnotized. You just want to make a fool of me!”

"Parbleu, nature has forestalled us in that!” he muttered, but aloud he answered: "Very well, Mademoiselle, as you wish. You will excuse us while we perform our work?” With a frigid bow he turned from her and motioned the others into an adjoining room.

All furniture had been removed from this apartment save a single round table and a dozen chairs. About the latter de Grandin traced a pentagram composed of two interlaced triangles, and in each of the five points he set a tall wax candle, a tiny, sharp-pointed dagger with tip pointing outward, and a small crucifix.

Norval led in Hildegarde, and as the sitters took their places round the table Professor Morine walked slowly round the circle, stroking each forehead and whispering soothingly. "All right, Doctor,” he called softly as he completed the circuit. "What next?”

The Frenchman lighted the candles one by one, murmuring some sort of prayer or incantation as each took flame, surveyed the dimly lit room for a moment, then turned to the professor. "Bid them take orders from me, if you please,” he answered.

While Professor Morine repeated the command, de Grandin drew forth five shallow silver dishes from beneath the table, poured some thick, dark fluid into each from a prodigious hip-flask; then from another flask he added some further liquor, dark like the first, but thinner and less viscid. As he recorked the second flask I became aware of the pleasant, heady odor of port wine.

Each of the five dishes he placed just outside one of the five points of the pentagram; then drawing something which jangled musically from beneath the table, he handed Morine and me each a small ecclesiastical censer and set the



powdered incense glowing. "Keep them in motion, my friends,” he ordered, "and should anything appear amid the darkness, swing your censers toward it without ceasing.”

To the sitters round the table he ordered: "You will now concentrate with all your force on recovering that which is yours. No thought will you give to anything else, nor will you see or notice what may take place here, but ceaselessly you will say — and feel — 'Gilles Gamier, give me back that which you withhold!’ Begin!”

Like the muttering of a summer stormwind heard miles away, the low, monotonous, whispered chorus began: "Gilles Gamier, give me back that which you withhold — Gilles Gamier, give me back that which you withhold!”

F or upward of five minutes the murmured, monotonous chorus went on. The ceaseless repetition made me drowsy. I stared about the dim, candle-lit room in an effort to distract my attention from the unceasing monody, wondering when it would stop.

"Why did you bring in this professional hypnotist?” I whispered to de Grandin. "I’ve seen you do some wonderful work of that kind; do you think it advisable to bring in a stranger?”

"Tiens,” he returned softly, "there were twelve of them t6 be subjected, counting the recalcitrant Mademoiselle Noyer. To put them all beneath the spell would have tired me greatly, and le bon Dieu knows I must be fresh and mentally alert this night. Attendez; it comes!”

A sensation of intense cold was spreading through the warm, closed room, and the five candles flickered and bent their flames as though a breeze blew on them, though the light silk-mesh curtains at the windows were still as though cast in metal. From one of the vessels by a star-

) latest in Radio . . . new 1931

sen Grid Humlesa All-Electric Seta,

remote control, public address, phonocombinations ... all dynamic speaker i equipped. Also battery operated sets . Beautiful consoles. Accessories, parts, kits, electric appliances, etc. Send for this 168-page FREE book today l

ALLI ED ^ RADIO


con PCRAT ION

WEAKEST. Dept. 207

CHICAGO

QUIT

TOBACCO

No man or woman can escape i the harmfu 1 effects of tobacco. (M Don’t try to banish unaided the hold tobacco has upon you.

Join the thousands of inveterate tobacco users that have _

found it easy toquit with the aid of the Keeley Treatment.

TREATMENT

STOPS

Tobacco Habit j

Quickly banishes all craving for tobacco. Write today for Free Book telling how toquickly Free yourself from j the tobacco habit and our Money Back Guarantee.

THE KEELEY INSTITUTE Popt. M-307 Dwight. Illinois

KEELEY

LONELY HEARTS

L ET ns arrange a romantic correspondence for you. Meet your sweetheart thru the world’s foremost high-class social correspondence club, a club for refined lonely people. Members every- .y CONFIDENTIAL, efficient and dignified service. We have made thousands of lonely people happy, why not you? Write for FREE Particulars.

EVA MOORE. BOX 008. JACKSONVILLE. FLA ■

HAVE A SWEETHEART FOR YOl

0 °l° T u o STOP TOBACCO?

Banish the craving for tobacco as thousands have. Make yourself free wad happy with Tobacoo Redeemer. Not a substitute, not habit forming. Write for free booklet telling of lnj uriou s effect of tobacco and depend - able, easy way to relieve the craving many men have. Newell Pharmacal Co.

Dept. 917. Clayton, Mo,

% / /

V

FREE

BOOK

HUNDREDS SEEKING MARRIAGE

If you are lonely and sincere I can arrange a romantic correspondence that will help you to And your ideal in a CONFIDENTIAL and dignified manner. Just the opportunity you have been awaiting. Full particulars for stamp. Mrs. F, Willard, 3004 N. Clark St., Chicago, 111.

Big 3 ft. Telescope

Fire flections. Brass bound. Powerful _ _ Lenses. 10-Mile range. Special Eye

Piece for looking at the Sun. included FREE. Can be used as a Microscope. Guaranteed. Big value. Postpaid $1.75. C. O. D. 15c extra.

BENNER & COMPANY, T-56, TRENTON, N. J.

LONESOME!

A national organization that has helped thousands of lonely men and women find true happiness, can help you. Many refined, wealthy members anxious to marry. Particulars upon request. Write, GetAcquatnted Club, B-1251. Denver. Colo.



point there came a strange, soft sound, such a sound as a cat makes when it laps milk, and the rubescent liquid in the dish showed faint ripples, as though disturbed by a dabbling finger — or an invisible tongue. Lower, lower sank the liquid; the bowl was now all but empty.

Softly, swiftly, de Grandin moved, snatching one after another of the silver vessels, dragging them within the outline of the pentagram.

Again we waited, the monotonous, refrain, "Gilles Gamier, give me back what you withhold!” dinning in our ears; then in a farther corner of the room showed a faint and ghastly phosphorescence. Brighter and brighter it glowed, took shape, took substance — a monstrous, shaggy white wolf crouched in the angle of the wall!

The beast was bigger than a mastiff, bigger than an Irish wolfhound, almost as big as a half-grown heifer, and from its wide and gaping mouth there lolled a gluttonous red tongue from which a drop of dark-red liquid dripped. But dreadful as the monster’s size and aspect were, its eyes were more so. Incongruous as living orbs glaring through the eye-holes of a skull, they were, fierce, fiery malevolent and human ; but human only to be vicious, cunning and wicked, as human intellect, perverted, is cruder than the instincts of the crudest of brute beasts.

For a moment the monster glared at us; then with a bellowing cry of rage it rose upon its haunches, got to all four feet, and charged full-tilt upon us.

"Accursed of heaven, cast-off of hell, give back that which you withhold!” de Grandin cried, advancing to an angle of the pentagram to meet the werewolf’s charge, swinging his censer toward it, so that clouds of incense floated forward, and returning the wolf-thing’s glare with a stare of equal hatred and ferocity.

Where the narrow chalk-line of the

pentagram traced across the floor the great beast stopped abruptly as though in contact with a solid wall, gave a bay of wild, insensate rage, and recoiled, choking and gasping from the cloud of incense.

"Accursed of heaven, give back that which you withhold!” de Grandin ordered yet again.

The great white beast eyed him questioningly, lowered itself till its bellyhairs scarcely cleared the floor, and slowly circled round the pentagram, whining half fearfully, half savagely.

"Accursed of heaven, give back that which you withhold!” came the inexorable command once more.

Oddly, the wolf-thing seemed losing substance. Its solidarity seemed dwindling; where a moment before it had been substantial as any terror of the forest, we could now plainly discern the outlines of the room through its body, as though it were composed of vapor. It lost its red and white tones and became luminous, like a figure traced in phosphorescent paint on a dark background. The head, the trunk, the limbs and tail became elongated, split off from one another, rose slowly toward the ceiling like little globes of luminosity, floated in midair a moment, then slowly settled toward the monotonously droning sitters round the table.

As each luminous globe touched a sitter’s head it vanished, not like a bursting bubble, but slowly, like a ponderable substance being sucked in, as milk in a goblet vanishes when imbibed through a straw.

A single tiny pear-shaped globule of light remained, bobbing aimlessly against the ceiling, bouncing down again, as an imprisoned wasp may make the circuit of a room into which it has inadvertently flown.

"Accursed of heaven, give back that



which you withhold!” de Grandin ordered, staring fixedly at the rebounding fire-ball, "give back that which ”

"Here, I’ve stood about enough of this — I want to know what’s going on here!” Mazie Noyer burst into the room. "If you’re doing anything mystic, I want to ”

"Pour I’amour de Dieu, have a care!” de Grandin’s appalled shout cut her short. She had walked across an angle of the pentagram, oversetting and extinguishing one of the candles as she did so.

"I won’t be bullied and insulted by you any longer, you miserable little French snip!” she announced striding toward him. "I’ll ”

The fire-ball fell to the floor as though suddenly transmuted to lead. We could hear the impact as it struck the boards. For a moment it rolled aimlessly to and fro, seemed to shrink — -compress itself — and quickly took on the shape of a tiny, white wolf.

Scarcely larger than a mouse it was, but a perfect replica of the great beast which had menaced us a few moments earlier, even to its implacable savagery. With a howl which was hardly more than a ratsqueak in volume, yet fierce and terrifying for all that, it dashed across the room, straight at the angle of the pentagram where the candle had been overturned.

"Pardieu, we meet on something like even ground, Monsieur le Loup-garou, I think!” de Grandin cried, seized one of the small, sharp-pointed daggers from the floor and impaled the advancing miniature monster with its keen blade.

The tiny, savage thing died slowly, writhing horribly. With teeth and claws it fought against the steel which pinned it to the floor, blood and futile, hissing, agonized squealing howls issuing from its gaping mouth. At last its struggles ceased, it quivered and lay still.

"Oh, you cruel, odious little wretch,

Stopped

His Whiskey

Drinking

It FREE

The Happy Reunion

Wives, mothers, sisters, it is you that the man who drinks Whiskey, Wine or B Beer to excess must depend upon to help save . him from a ' ruined life and a drunkard’s grave. Take heed from the thousands of men going to ruin daily through vile bootlegger’s Whiskey, and the horrible stuff called home brew from private stills. Once he gets it in his system he finds it difficult to stop — but you can help him. What it has done for others is an example of what it should do for you. All you have to do is to send your name and address and we will send absolutely FREE, in plain wrapper, a trial package of GOLDEN TREATMENT. You will be thankful as long as you live that you did it. Address DR. J. W. HAINES CO.

4140 Glenn Building Cincinnati, Ohio

MARRY!

IF YOU WANT "A RICH WIFE!" or "WEALTHY HUSBAND!”— send for our big (FREE) List of Descriptions. ("ONE”) may be your ideal!

AMERICAN FRIENDSHIP SOCIETY Box 100-AD. Detroit, Michigan

ToAnySultl

' Double the life of your coat and vest with correctly matched pants. 100,000 pattei Every pair hand tailored to your measure; no * ‘ readymades. ' ’ Our match sent FREE for your O. K. before pants are made. Fit guaranteed. Send piece of cloth or vest today.

SUPERIOR MATCH PANTS COMPANY

IIS So. Dearborn Street*

pt. 487,

I CHALLENGE

you that I will teach you. by mail in one lesson, the simplest, shortest, method. Not telopathy. You can read one's mind to a dot by only looking in the eyes of partner, chum, sweetheart, etc. Fraised by New York, Boston, Montreal Police Chiefs, colleges, Thurston, Blackstone, etc. If fake, lot them arrest me. Send in all 11.00.

A* Honigman, 5390 Clarke St., W.T.-l, Montreal, Can,



you killed that poor little animal as heartlessly as ” Miss Noyer raged at him,

then broke off her tirade abruptly and planted a resounding slap upon de Grandin's cheek.

A red and angry patch showed on his face where her palm and fingers struck, but the rest of his countenance went livid beneath the insult. "Sorciere! Witchwoman; ally of hell’s dark powers!” he cried furiously. "Were it not that I must burn him to ashes in the fire, I would give you the carcass of your familiar for a keepsake. Be off, get gone, ere I forget

your sex and ” He strode toward her,

eyes blazing with such cold, concentrated fury that she recoiled from him as from a serpent. “You dare!” she challenged in a shrill, frightened voice. "You just dare strike me!” then turned and raced through the door as though in fear of swift and condign punishment.

<( /\F course,” de Grandin told me in my study some two hours later, "we could neglect no precautions, my friend. The pentagram has at all times and in all ages been esteemed as a guard against the powers of evil; wicked spirits,

CHARACTER ANALYSIS

-LEARN WHAT 1931

has in store for you. Do you know what your strong and weak points are? Will you be lucky ? _ Will 1931 foe a profitable year for you? Consult it for business, love, courtship, marriage, speculation, health, etc. 8 pages. Send birth date with 25c.

J. M. Simmons, 109 N. Dearborn, Chicago, 111.

ARB YOU LONELY?? and single, too.

Don’t wonder what on earth to do!

Just send a line to BETTY TRUE,

Her Club will chase the blues for you!

(Write today.)

Box 796, Los Angeles, Calif.

Do you want to learn how to get

EMPLOYMENT?

If so we can help you

Send name and address for free literature. THE

BROTHERHOOD OF LIGHT, DEFT. O, Bos 1525, Los Angeles, Calif.

STATEMENT OF THE OWNERSHIP, MANAGEMENT, CIRCULATION, ETC.. R1&- <|UIRED BY THE ACT OF CONGRESS OF AUGUST 24, 1918,

Of Weird Tales, published monthly at Indianapoiis, Indiana, for October 1, 1930.

State of Illinois County of Cook ss *

Before me, a notary public in and for the State and county aforesaid, personally appeared Wm. R. Sprenger, who, having been duly sworn according to law, deposes and says that he is the Business Manager of the Weird Tales and that the following is, to the best of his knowledge and belief, a true statement of the ownership, management (and If a daily paper, the circulation), etc., of the aforesaid publication for the date shown in the above caption required by the Act of August 24, 1912, embodied in section 411, Postal Laws and Regulations, printed on the reverse of this form, to wit:

1. That the names and addresses of the publisher, editor, managing editor, and business manager are:

Publisher — Popular Fiction Publishing Company, 2457 E. Washington St., Indianapolis, Ind.

Editor — Farnsworth Wright, 840 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago, 111.

Managing Editor — None.

Business Manager — William R. Sprenger, 840 N, Michigan Ave., Chicago, 111.

2. That the owner is: (If owned by a corporation, its name and address must be stated and also immediately thereunder the names and addresses of stockholders owning or holding one per cent or more of total amount of stock. If not owned by a corporation, the names and addresses of the individual owners must be given. If owned by a firm, company, or other unincorporated concern, its name and address, as well as those of each individual member must be given.)

Popular Fiction Publishing Company, 2457 E. Washington St., Indianapolis, Ind.

Wm. R. Sprenger, 840 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago, 111.

Farnsworth Wright, 840 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago, 111.

George M. Cornelius, 2457 E. Washington St., Indianapolis, Indiana.

George H. Cornelius, 2457 E. Washington St., Indianapolis, Indiana.

P. W. Cornelius, 2457 E. Washington St., Indianapolis, Indiana.

3. That the known bondholders, mortgagees, and other security holders owning or holding 1 per cent or more of total amount of bonds, mortgages, or other securities are: (If there are none, so state). None.

4. That the two paragraphs next above, giving the names of the owners, stockholders, and security holders, if any, contain not only the list of stockholders and security holders as they appear upon the books of the company, but also, in cases where the stockholder or security holder appears upon the books of the company as trustee or in any other fiduciary relation, the name of the person or corporation for whom such trustee is acting, is given; also that the said two paragraphs contain statements embracing affiant’s full knowledge and belief as to the circumstances and conditions under which stockholders and security holders who do not appear upon the books of the company as trustees, hold stock and securities in a capacity other than that of a bona fide owner; and this affiant has no reason to believe that any other person, association, or corporation has any interest, direct or indirect, in the said stock, bonds, or other securities than as so stated by him.

6. That the average number of copies of each issue of this publication sold or distributed, through the mails or otherwise, to paid subscribers during the six months preceding the date shown above

isj: (This information is required from

daily publications only.)

WM. R. SPRENGER.

Business Manager.

Sworn to and subscribed before me this 29th day of September, 1930. RICHARD S. GOULDEN,

[SEAL] Notary Public.

My commission expires May 4. 1934.



even the most powerful, are balked by it. In addition, I placed in each of its five angles a blessed candle from the church, a crucifix and also a dagger which had been dipped in eau benite. Evil spirits of an elemental nature — those which have never been housed in human flesh — can not face pointed steel, probably because it concentrates radiations of psychic force from the human body which are destructive to them. In addition, I secured from the good cure who let me have the candles three censers filled with consecrated incense. Mordieu, he was hard to convince, that one, but once I had convinced him that the blessed articles were needed to combat a dread invader from the other world, he went the entire pig, as you Americans say. Yes. Incense, you must know, is highly objectionable to wicked spirits, whether they be the ghosts of long-dead evil men or ill-disposed neutrarians bent on doing mischief to mankind, whom they hate.

"Eh bien, I thought the grease was in the fire when that never-enough-to-beabominated Noyer woman came into the room and overset the guardian candle. Her natural vidousness and her anger made a sad disturbance, she gave the one tiny remaining bit of psychoplasm as yet not reabsorbed the very nourishment it needed to become a ravening, preying, full-sized werewolf once more. Had I not killed it to death with the consecrated dagger when I did, it might have grown once more to its full stature — and it was already inside the protecting pentagram. Cordieu,. I do not like to speculate on what might have happened then! No, we shall be far happier if we dismiss that thought from our minds.”

'"What was in those silver dishes?” 1 asked.

"Bait,” he answered with a grin. "Blood and wine, my friend; wine and

TEST

Make

RECORDS OF YOUR

Talking and Singing Voice

Here la the newest, most sensational Idea of the year. Loada of fun. Mystifying and practical. Make real records of your singing and talking voice. Just place one of the Crystal Voice Records on your phonograph and speak, or sing into it. Then listen to YOURSELF. Make records of your friends' voices. Record your home orchestras.

For Fun and Profit

Give recording parties. Loads of fan and entertainment. A tremendous new field for pleasant talkers and singers has been opened by the talking pictures and radio. Train your voice and cultivate your speech through this amazing scientific discovery. Here is your opportunity to practice in your own home.

No mechanical or electrical devices needed. No further information necessary — everything to start recording at once included with records.

WRITE TODAY! Send your order AT ONCE. Three Crystal Records (six sides) for $1.98. Check or money order for $1.98, or pay postman on arrival.

CRYSTAL RECORDING COMPANY

Dept. WT, 303 Fourth Ave., New York

CLASSIFIED ADVERTISEMENTS

Song Writing

SONGWRITERS! ADVANCE ROYALTY PAYments, new talking picture song requirements, etc., fully explained in our free instructive booklet. Newcomer Associates, 1674-Z Broadway, N ew York. SONG POEM WRITERS— 1 "REAL’' PROPOSITION. Hibbeler, D156, 2104 Keystone, Chicago.

Help Wanted

POSITIONS ON OCEAN LINERS: EXPERIENCE unnecessary; Good pay; List of positions free. Box 292-E, Mount Vernon, N. Y.

Personal

CHASE THOSE LONELY HOURS AWAY! I’VE the very pal for you, lonesome like yourself. Write today — you'll be glad. Free particulars, confidential, interesting descriptions, attractive members everywhere (many wealthy). Mrs. Budd, Box 753-W, San Francisco, Calif.

WANT TO JOIN THREE CORRESPONDING CIRCLES for price of one, free description lists, details for stamp. Popular Wealthy Corresponding Circles, Box 743, Kingston, N. Y.

LETTER CLUB FOR LADIES AND GENTLEMEN.

Big paper free, send for one. Eastern Agency 22, Bridgeport, Conn.

FOR 1931 ftUMEKOLOG ICAL FORECAST SEND

20c and birthdate to Mrs. Sanchez, 2847 Fourth Ave., Detroit, Michigan.

MEN— ENLARGE MUSCLES; STRICTLY CONfidentiaL Stamp appreciated. Address: Laboratory Manager, Box 534, Santa Ana, Calif.



NEXT MONTH

THE LOST LADY

By SEABURY QUINN

I N the temple of Angkor in Cambodia danced a white temple-dancer. How she came there was a mystery which interested the French government. This beautiful temple-dancer became the focal point in a mystery involving a revolt against French rule, evil magic, and fiendish tortures.

H ow Inspector Renouard pursued the diabolical Doctor Sun Ah Poy to America and enlisted the help of the little French occultist, Jules de Grandin, makes a thrilling and fascinating novelette, which will be published complete in the

January issue of


On Sale December 1st Clip and Mail this coupon today /

$40 N. Michigan Ave.,

Chicago, 111.

Enclosed find $1 for special 5 months subscription to “Weird Tales" to begin with the January issue ($1.25 in Canada). Special offer void unless remittance is accompanied by coupon.

Name

Address

City — — State

blood. The mixture of those liquids is especially pleasing to the hosts of evil. In the celebration of la messe noire — die black mass where Satan is invoked — by example, the chalice is filled with mingled wine and blood from the cut throat of a sacrificed babe. Therefore, I procured some fresh blood from the hospital and some fresh wine from a leggerof-the-boot this morning, and set my bait. The werewolf came to drink, but I would not let him lap his fill. No. When he had drank one bowlful I did move the others from his reach within the angles of the pentagram, lest he become too powerful for us. One does not nourish one’s enemy before the encounter, my friend. Assuredly not. All of which reminds me ”

"Of what?” I asked, as he paused with one of his well-remembered, elfish grins.

"That wine unmixed with blood is very good to drink, and that I am most vilely thirsty. Madame Hildegarde's obsession is destroyed, she has no more to fear, for Gilles Gamier is deprived of bodily ability to do her harm. There is no immediate further need for the so great talents of Jules de Grandin, therefore” — he rose with a profound bow— "with your permission I shall proceed to drink myself into a state of blissful unconsciousness — and he who wakes me before noon tomorrow would be advised to have his Pater Nosters said beforehand!”

Listen In On Your Radio Every Wednesday Night

at 12 o’clock. Eastern Standard Time, for the

WEIRD TALES HOUR

Dramatization of stories from the magazine will be broadcast from

Station WTAM, Cleveland

W. T— 9

AcEyClTlCED ©r THE

WdKL© AcCLT^y©©?

We invite you to take a trip with us through the glamorous land of the Orient, to enjoy its mystery and see the colorful life of its people through the medium of fascinating stories, as you could never see it on any cut-and-dried steamship tour. Let our writers take you into the harems, enjoy the gossip of the souks, see the panorama of red war, ride across the desert with the Bedouins, and tremble before the onslaught of the Masked Tuaregs — all without leaving the cozy comfort of your fireside.

Here is the magazine you have been waiting for, a magazine whose stories get under the skin of the inscrutable East. A magazine crammed full of romance and interest that will supply you with many hours of pleasurable entertainment.

ON SALE AT ALL NEWS STANDS

Subscription Rates: $1.50 a year in U. S. or possessions; Canadian $1.75; Foreign $2.00. Oriental Stories 840 N. Michigan Ave. Chicago, 111.

OU’LL NEVER KNOW LIFE

Until You've Read the Greatest of All Forbidden Books !

Y OU’LL never know the tremendous force of human passions until you’ve feasted on the most thrilling Tales from that greatest of all true-to-fife hooks — the immortal Decameron ! . . . Here are the frankest tales of love and intrigue ever set down on paper. Written in an age of plain speaking they show us how real flesh-andblood men and women act in time of stress — the deep secret motives that influence our actions today no less than they did centuries ago.

And now for a short time only you can inspect these great examples of realistic writing — the stories which you have always longed to read — in your own home for. five days, without obligation ! Read all about this surprising offer, then s<ind for your copy at once.

AMAZING .... INSPIRING

For centuries the Decameron has thrilled millions — has inspired countless great authors— has been lauded by the most discriminating critics. Rich in fascinating plots, vibrant with all the passions of a warm-blooded race, it has furnished plots for the world’s great masters of literature — Shakespeare, Chaucer, Keats, Tennyson, Dryden and Longfellow. No one can know literature, can call himself truly sophisticated, until he has drunk from the bottomless loving cup of that genial old Italian, Giovanni Boccaccio. . . . And far from being immoral as many narrow minded people used to think, these Tales from the Decameron are in reality almost a text book for the earnest student of that greatest of all studies — human nature.

Boccaccio’s stories have already lived five times as long as our United States. They were the “best sellers” when Broadway was still a wilderness — and yet today they still delight us with their immortal vitality, forever young, forever gay, forever thrilling.

The morals and customs of Italy of the fourteenth century are all laid before you — the way people lived, the hovels and palaces they dwelt in, the strange pleasures they indulged in — all are told with a wit and pathos that never crept between the covers of any other book. Thus the stories not only amuse and entertain, which after all is the first requirement of good fiction, but they give us

the history of manners and morals of a long passed age. They constitute a landmark of literature, which must not be passed over, if you would broaden your vision — make yourself truly cultured.

SEND NO MONEY 5 DAY TRIAL

And now we are enabled to offer you three great classics — thirty-five of the best stories from the famous Decameron —for the amazingly low sum of only $1.98, Send no money — just fill out and mail the coupon below. Wh.en the package arrives pay the postman $1.98 plus few cents postage. Inspect this great book for five days, then if you are not delighted return it and your money will -be. refunded. Mail the coupon this instant before this low price offer is withdrawn ! Franklin Publishing Co., 800 N. Clark St., Dept. W -610, Chicago.

Franklin Publishing Co.,

800 N. Clark SL, Dept. W -61 0.

I Chicago.

Please send me a copy of The Tales from the 1 immortal Decameron by Boccaccio. When package I arrives I will" pay postman only $1.98 plus few ■

cents postage. Ii not delighted. I am at liberty to I

return the volume within five days and my money I will be refunded. I

I Name - 11

I Address I

| City — State I

i If you may be out when the postman calls, en- ,

* close $2 with this coupon and we will pay all de- I

I livery charges. Customers outside U. S. must send ■

cash with order. I

L-- I

[THE END]
