============================================================
Weird Tales
Volume 32, Number 4
Date: October 1938
============================================================
============================================================
TABLE OF CONTENTS

  1. "The Maze of Maal Dweb" by Clark Ashton Smith
============================================================
============================================================
by Clark Ashton Smith
============================================================
plain.

END]

az,e of Maal

Dweb

By CLARK ASHTON SMITH

What strange and bizarre fate awaited the girl Athle and the hunter Tiglari in the fearsome labyrinth of the enchanter?

B Y THE light of the four small waning moons of Xiccarph, Tiglari had crossed that bottomless swamp wherein no reptile dwelt and no dragon descended; but where the pitch-black ooze was alive with incessant heavings. He had not cared to use the high causey of • corundum that spanned the fen, and had threaded his way with much peril from isle to sedgy isle that shuddered gelatinously beneath him. When he reached the solid shore and the shelter of the palmtall rushes, he did not approach the porphyry stairs that wound skyward through giddy chasms and along glassy scarps to the house of Maal Dweb. The causey and the stairs were guarded by the silent, colossal automatons of Maal Dweb, whose

arms ended in long crescent blades of tempered steel which were raised in implacable scything against any who came thither without their master’s permission.

Tiglari’s naked body was smeared with the juice of a plant repugnant to all the fauna of Xiccarph. By virtue of this he hoped to pass unharmed the ferocious ape-like creatures that roamed at will through the tyrant’s cliff-hung gardens. He carried a coil of woven root-fiber, strong and light, and weighted with a brazen ball, for use in climbing the mesa. At his side, in a sheath of chimera-skin, he wore a needle-sharp knife that had been dipped in the poison of winged vipers.

Many, before Tiglari, with the same



noble dream of tyrannicide, had attempted to cross the fen and scale the scarps. But none had returned; and the fate of such as had won to the palace of Maal Dweb was a much-disputed problem. But Tiglari, the skilled jungle hunter, was undeterred by the hideous dubieties before him.

That escalade would have been an improbable feat by the full light of the three suns of Xiccarph. With eyes keen as those of some night-flying pterodactyl, Tiglari hurled his weighted coil about narrow coigns and salients. He climbed with simian ease from foothold to foothold; and at length he gained a little buttress beneath the last cliff. From this vantage it was easy to fling his rope around a crooked tree that leaned gulfward with simitar-like foliage from the gardens.

Evading the sharp, semi-metallic leaves that slashed downward as tire tree bent limberly with his weight, he stood, stooping warily, on the fearsome and fabled mesa. Here, it was said, with no human aid, the half-demoniac sorcerer had carved a mountain’s pinnacles into walls, domes and turrets, and had leveled the rest of the mountain to a flat space about them. This space he had covered with loamy soil, produced by magic; and therein he had planted curious baneful trees from outlying worlds, together with flowers that might have been those of some exuberant hell.

Little enough was known of these gardens; but the flora that grew upon the northern, southern and western sides of the palace was believed to be less deadly than that which faced the dawning of the three suns. Much of this latter vegetation, according to myth, had been trained and topiarized in the form of a labyrinth, balefully ingenious, that concealed atrocious traps and unknown dooms. Mindful of this labyrinth, Tiglari had approached the place on the side toward the sunset.

Breathless from his climb, he crouched in the garden shadows. About him heavyhooded blossoms leaned in venomous languor, or fawned with open mouths that exhaled a narcotic perfume or diffused a pollen of madness. Anomalous, multiform, with silhouettes that curdled the blood or touched the mind with nightmare, the trees of Maal Dweb appeared to gather and conspire against him. Some arose with the sinuous towering of plumed pythons, of aigretted dragons. Others crouched with radiating limbs like the hairy members of giant spiders. They seemed to close in upon Tiglari. They waved their frightful darts of thorn, their scythe-like leaves. They blotted the four moons with webs of arabesque menace.

With endless caution the hunter made his way forward, seeking a rift in the monstrous hedge. His faculties, ever alert, were quickened still more by fear and hatred. The fear was not for himself but for the girl Athle, his beloved and the fairest of his tribe, who had gone up alone that evening by the causey of corundum and the porphyry stairs, at the summons of Maal Dweb. His hatred was that of an outraged lover for the allpowerful, all-dreaded tyrant whom no man had ever seen, and from whose abode no woman ever came back; who spoke with an iron voice audible in far cities or outmost jungles; who punished the disobedient with a doom of falling fire swifter than the thunderstone.

Maal Dweb had taken ever the fairest from among the maidens of the planet Xiccarph; and no mansion of tire walled towns, or outland cave, was exempt from his scrutiny. He had chosen no less than fifty girls during the period of his tyranny; and these, forsaking their lovers and kinsfolk voluntarily, lest the wrath of Maal Dweb should descend upon



them, had gone one by one to the mountain citadel and were lost behind its cryptic walls. There, as the odalisques of the aging sorcerer, they were supposed to dwell in halls that multiplied their beauty with a thousand mirrors; and were said to have for servants women of brass and men of iron.

Tiglari had poured before Athle his uncouth adoration and the spoils of the chase, but having many rivals, was unsure of her favor. Cool as a river-lily, she had accepted impartially his worship and that of the others, among whom the warrior Mocair was perhaps the most formidable. Returning from the hunt, Tiglari had found the tribe in lamentation; and learning that Athle had departed to the harem of Maal Dweb, was swift to follow. He had not told his intention to anyone, since the ears of Maal Dweb were everywhere; and he did not know whether Mocair or any of the others had preceded him in his desperate errantry. But it was not unlikely that Mocair had already dared the obscure and hideous perils of the mountain.

T he thought of this was enough to drive Tiglari forward with a rash disregard of the clutching foliations and reptile flowers. He came to a gap in the horrible grove, and saw the saffron lights from the sorcerer’s windows. The lights were vigilant as dragons’ eyes, and appeared to regard him with an evil awareness. But Tiglari leapt toward them, across the gap, and heard the clash of sabered leaves meeting behind him.

Before him was an open' lawn, covered with a queer grass that squirmed like innumerable worms under his feet. He did not care to linger upon that lawn. There were no footmarks in the grass; but, nearing the palace portico, he saw a coil of thin rope that someone had flung aside.

and surmised that Mocair had preceded him.

There were paths of mottled marble about the palace, and fountains that played from the throats of carven monsters. The open portals were unguarded, and the whole building was still as a mausoleum lit by windless lamps. Tiglari, however, mistrusted this appearance of quietude and slumber, and followed the bordering paths for some distance before daring to approach nearer to the palace.

Certain large and shadowy animals, which he took for the apish monsters of Maal Dweb, went by him in the gloom. Some of them ran in four-footed fashion, while others maintained the half-erect posture of anthropoids; but all were hairy and uncouth. They did not offer to molest Tiglari; but, whining dismally, they slunk away as if to avoid him. By this token he knew that they were actual beasts, and could not abide the odor with which he had smeared his limbs and torso.

At length he came to a lampless, column-crowded portico; and, gliding silently as a jungle snake, he entered the mysterious house of Maal Dweb. A door stood open behind the dark pillars; and beyond the door he discerned the dim reaches of an empty hall.

Tiglari went in with redoubled caution,; and began to follow the arrased wall.. The place was full of unknown perfumes, languorous and somnolent: a subtle reek as of censers in hidden alcoves of love.. He did not like the perfumes; and the silence troubled him more and more. It seemed to him that the darkness was thick with unheard breathings, was alive with invisible movements.

Slowly, like the opening of great yellow eyes, yellow flames arose in lamps o£ copper along the hall. Tiglari hid himself behind an arras; and peering forth



presently, he saw that the hall was still deserted. Finally he dared to resume his progress. Ail around him the rich hangings, broidered with purple men and blue women on a field of blood, appeared to stir with uneasy life in a wind he could not feel. But there was no sign of the presence of Maal Dweb or his metal servitors and human odalisques.

The doors on either side of the hall, with cunningly mated valves of ebony and ivory, were all closed. At the far end Tiglari saw a thin rift of light in a somber double arras. Parting the arras very softly, he peered through into a huge, brilliantly lit chamber that seemed to be the harem of Maal Dweb, peopled with all the girls that the enchanter had summoned to his dwelling. It seemed, in fact, that there were hundreds, leaning or lying on ornate couches, or standing in attitudes of languor or terror. Tiglari discerned in the throng the women of Ommu-Zain, whose flesh is whiter than desert salt; the slim girls of Uthmai, who are molded from breathing, palpitating jet; the queenly topaz girls of equatorial Xala; and the small women of Ilap, who have the tones of newly greening bronze. But among them all he could not find the lotus-like beauty of Athle.

Much he marveled at the number of the women and the perfect stillness with which they maintained their various postures. They were like goddesses that slept in some enchanted hail of eternity. Tiglari, the intrepid hunter, was awed and frightened. These women — if indeed they -were women and not mere statues — were surely the thralls of a death-like spell. Here, indeed, was proof of the sorcery of Maal Dweb.

However, if Tiglari were to continue his search, he must traverse that enchanted chamber. Feeling that a marble sleep might descend upon him at the crossing of the sill, he went in with held

breath and furtive leopard-like paces. About him the women preserved their eternal stillness. Each, it seemed, had been overcome by the spell at the instant of some particular emotion, whether of fear, wonder, curiosity, vanity, weariness, anger or voluptuousness. Their number was fewer than he had supposed; and the room itself was smaller: but metal mirrors, paneling the walls, had created an illusion of multitude and immensity.

At the farther end he parted a second double arras, and peered through into a twilight chamber illumined dimly by two censers that gave forth a parti-colored glow. The censers stood on tripods, facing each other. Between them, beneath a canopy of some dark and smoldering stuff with fringes braided like women’s hair, was a couch of night-deep purples bordered with silver birds that fought against golden snakes.

On the couch, in sober garments, a man reclined as if weary or asleep. The man’s face was dim with ever- wavering shadows; but it did not occur to Tiglari that this was any other than the redoubtable tyrant whom he had come to slay. He knew that this was Maal Dweb, whom no man had seen in the flesh but whose power was manifest to all: the occult, omniscient ruler of Xiccarph; the suzerain of the three suns and of all their planets and moons.

Like ghostly sentinels, the symbols of the grandeur of Maal Dweb, the images of his frightful empire, rose up to confront Tiglari. But the thought of Athle was a red mist that blotted all. He forgot his eery terrors, his awe of that wizard palace. The rage of the bereaved lover, the blood-thirst of the cunning hunter awoke within him. He neared the unconscious sorcerer; and his hand tightened on the hilt of the needle-sharp knife that had been dipped in viper-venom.



T he man before him lay with closed eyes and a cryptic weariness on his mouth and eyelids. He seemed to meditate rather than sleep, like one who wanders in a maze of distant memories or profound reveries. About him the walls were draped with funereal hangings, darkly figured. Above him the twin censers wrought a cloudy glow, and diffused throughout the room their drowsy myrrh, which made Tiglari’s senses swim with a strange dimness.

Crouching tiger-wise, he made ready for the stroke. Then, mastering the subtle vertigo of the perfume, he rose up; and his arm, with the darting movement of some heavy but supple adder, struck fiercely at the tyrant’s heart.

It was as if he had tried to pierce a wall of stone. In midair, before and above the recumbent enchanter, the knife clashed on some unseen, impenetrable substance; and the point broke off and tinkled on the floor at Tiglari’s feet. Uncomprehending, baffled, he peered at the being whom he had sought to slay. Maal Dweb had not stirred nor opened his eyes; but his look of enigmatic weariness was somehow touched with a faint and cruel amusement.

Tiglari put out his hand to verify a curious notion that had occurred to him. Even as he had suspected, there was no couch or canopy between the censers — only a vertical, unbroken, highly polished surface in which the couch and its occupant were apparently reflected. But, to his further mystification, he himself was not visible in the mirror.

He whirled about, thinking that Maal Dweb must be somewhere in the room. Even as he turned, the funereal draperies rushed back with a silken, evil whispering from the walls, as if drawn by unseen hands. The chamber leapt into sudden glaring light; the walls appeared to recede inimitably; and naked giants, whose

umber-brown limbs and torsos glistened as if smeared with ointment, stood in menacing postures on every side. Their eyes glowered like those of jungle creatures; and each of them held an enormous knife, from which the point had been broken.

This, thought Tiglari, was a fearsome thaumaturgy; and he crouched down, wary as a trapped animal, to await the assault of the giants. But these beings, crouching simultaneously, mimicked his every movement. It came to him that what he saw was his own reflection, multiplied and monstrously amplified in the mirrors.

He turned again. The tasseled canopy, the couch of night-dark purples, the reclining dreamer, had vanished. Only the censers remained, rearing before a glassy wall that gave back like the others the reflection of Tiglari himself.

Baffled and terrified, he felt that Maal Dweb, the all-seeing, all-potent magician, was playing a game and was deluding him with elaborate mockeries. Rashly indeed had Tiglari pitted his simple brawn and forest craft against a being capable of such demoniac artifice. He dared not stir, he scarcely ventured to breathe. The monstrous reflections appeared to watch him like giants guarding a captive pigmy. The light, which streamed as if from hidden lamps in the mirrors, took on a more pitiless and alarming luster. The reaches of the room seemed to deepen; and far away in their shadows he saw the gathering of vapors with human faces that melted and reformed incessantly and were never twice the same.

Ever the weird radiance brightened; ever the mist of faces, like a hell-born smoke, dissolved and re-limned itself behind the immobile giants, in the lengthening vistas. How long Tiglari waited, he could not tell: the bright, frozen horror



of that room was a thing apart from time.

Now, in the lit air, a voice began to speak; a voice that was toneless, deliberate, and disembodied. It was faintly contemptuous; a little weary; slightly cruel. It was near as the beating of Tiglari’s heart — and yet infinitely far.

"What do you seek, Tiglari?” said the voice. "Do you think to enter with impunity the palace of Maal Dweb? Others — many others, with the same intentions — have come before you. But all have paid a price for their temerity.”

"I seek the maiden Athle,” said Tiglari. "What have you done with her?”

"Athle is very beautiful,” returned the voice. "It is the will of Maal Dweb to make a certain use of her loveliness. The use is not one that should concern a hunter of wild beasts.... You are unwise, Tiglari.”

"Where is Athle?” persisted the hunter.

"She has gone to find her fate in the labyrinth of Maal Dweb. Not long ago, the warrior Mocair, who had followed her to my palace, went out at my suggestion to pursue his search amid the threadless windings of that never-to-be-exhausted maze. Go now, Tiglari, and seek her also. There are many mysteries in my labyrinth; and among them, perhaps, 'is one which you are destined to solve.”

A door had opened in the mirrorpaneled wall. Emerging as if from the mirrors, two of the metal slaves of Maal Dweb had appeared. Taller than living men, and gleaming from head to foot with implacable lusters as of burnished swords, they came forward upon Tiglari. The right arm of each was handed with a great sickle. Hastily, the hunter went out through the opened door, and heard behind him the surly clash of its meeting valves.

T he short night of the planet Xiccarph -was not yet over; and the moons had all gone down. But Tiglari saw before him the beginning of the fabled maze, illumined by glowing globular fruits that hung lantern-wise from arches of foliage. Guided only by their light, he entered the labyrinth.

At first, it was a place of elfin fantasies. There were quaint paths, pillared with antic trees, latticed with drolly peering faces of extravagant orchids, that led the seeker to hidden, surprizing bowers of goblinry. It was as if those outer mazes had been planned wholly to entice and beguile.

Then, by vague degrees, it seemed that the designer’s mood had darkened, had become more ominous and baleful. The trees that lined the way with their twisted, intertwining boles were Laocoons of struggle and torture, lit by enormous fungi that seemed to lift unholy tapers. The path ran downward to eery pools alight with wreathing witchfires, or climbed with evilly tilted steps through caverns of close-set leafage that shone like brazen dragon-scales. It divided at every turn; the branchings multiplied; and skilled though he was in jungle-craft, it would have been impossible for Tiglari to trace his wanderings. He kept on, hoping that chance would somehow lead him to Athle; and many times he called her name aloud but was answered only by remote, derisive echoes or by the dolorous howling of some unseen beast.

Now he was mounting through arbors of malignant hydra growths that coiled and uncoiled tumultuously about him. The way lightened more and more; the night-shining fruits and blossoms were pale and sickly as the dying tapers of a witches’ revel. The earliest of the three suns had risen; and its gamboge-yellow beams were filtering in through the frilled and venomous vines.

W. T. — 6



Far off, and seeming to fall from some hidden height in the maze before him, he heard a chorus of brazen voices that were like articulate bells. He could not distinguish tire words; but the accents were those of a solemn announcement, fraught with -portentous finality. They ceased; and there was no sound other than the hiss and rustle of swaying plants.

It seemed now, as Tiglari went on, that his every step was predestined. He v.’as no longer free to choose his way; for many of the paths were overgrown by things that he did not care to face; and others were blocked by horrid portcullises of cacti, or ended in pools that teemed with leeches larger than tunnies. The second and third suns arose, heightening with their emerald and carmine rays the horror of the strange web dosing ineluctably about him.

He climbed on by stairs that reptilian vines had taken, and gradients lined with tossing, dashing aloes. Rarely could he see the reaches below, or the levels toward which he was tending. Somewhere on the blind path he met one of the apelike animals of Maal Dweb: a dark, savage creature, sleek and glistening like a wet otter, as if it bathed in one of the pools. It passed him with a hoarse growl, recoiling as the others had done from his repulsively smeared body.... But nowhere could he find the maiden Athle, or the warrior Mocair, who had preceded him into the maze.

Now' he came to a curious little pavement cf onyx, oblong, and surrounded by enormous flowers w'ith bronze-like stems and great leaning bells that might have been the mouths of chimeras, yawning to disclose their crimson throats. He stepped forward upon the pavement through a narrow gap in this singular hedge, and stood staring irresolutely at the serried blooms: for here the way seemed to end.

W. T.— 7

The onyx beneath his feet was wet with some unknown, sticky fluid. A quick sense of peril stirred within him, and he turned to retrace his steps. At his first movement toward the opening through which he had entered, a long tendril like a wire of bronze uncoiled with lightning rapidity -from the base of each of the flower stems, and closed about his ankles. He stood trapped and helpless at the center of a taut net. Then, while he struggled impotentiy, tire stems began to lean and tilt toward him, till the red mouths of their blossoms -were close about his knees like a circle of fawning monsters.

Nearer they came, almost touching him. From their lips a clear, hueless liquid, dripping slowly at first, and then running in little rills, descended on his feet and ankles and shanks. Indescribably, his flesh crawled beneath it; then there was a passing numbness; then a furious stinging like the bites of innumerable insects. Between the crowding heads of the flowers, he saw that his legs had undergone a mysterious and horrifying change. Their natural hairiness had thickened, had assumed a shaggy pile like the fur of apes; the shanks themselves had somehow shortened and the feet had grown longer, with uncouth finger-like toes such as were possessed by the animals of Maal Dweb!

I N A frenzy of nameless alarm, he drew his broken-tipped knife and began to slash at the flowers. It was as if he had assailed the armored heads of dragons, or had struck at ringing bells of iron. The blade snapped at the hilt. Then the blossoms, lifting hideously, were leaning about his waist, were laving his hips and thighs in their thin, evil slaver.

With the senses of one who drowns in nightmare, he heard the startled cry of a woman. Above the tilted flowers he be4 82


held a strange scene which the hitherto impenetrable maze, parting as if by magic, had revealed. Fifty feet away, on the same level as the onyx pavement, there stood an elliptic dais of moon-white stone at whose center the maiden Athle, emerging from the labyrinth on a raised porphyry walk, had paused in an attitude of wonder. Before her, in the claws of an immense marble lizard that reared above the dais, a round mirror of steely metal was held upright. Athle, as if fascinated by some strange vision, was peering into the disk. Midway between the pavement and the dais, a row of slender brazen columns rose at broad intervals, topped with graven heads like demoniac Termini.

Tiglari would have called out to Athle. But at that moment she took a single step toward the mirror, as if drawn by something that she saw in its depths; and the dull disk seemed to brighten with some internal, incandescent flame. The hunter’s eyes were blinded by the spiky rays that leapt forth from it for an instant, enveloping and transfixing the maiden. When the dimness cleared away in whirling blots of color, he saw that Athle, in a pose of statuesque rigidity, was still regarding the mirror with startled eyes. She had not moved; the wonder was frozen on her face; and it came to Tiglari that she -was like the women who' slept in an enchanted slumber in the harem of Maal Dweb. Even as this thought occurred to him, he heard a ringing chorus of metallic voices that seemed to emanate from the graven demon heads of the columns.

"The maiden Athle,” announced the voices in solemn and portentous tones, "has beheld herself in the mirror of Eternity, and has passed beyond the changes and corruptions of Time.”

Tiglari felt as if he were sinking into some obscure and terrible fen. He could

comprehend nothing of what had befallen Athle; and his own fate was an equally dark and dreadful enigma, beyond the solution of a simple hunter.

Now the blossoms had lifted about his shoulders, were laving his arms, his body* Beneath their abhorrent alchemy the transformation continued. A long fur sprang up on the thickening torso; the arms lengthened; they became simian; the hands took on a likeness to the feet.; From the neck downward, Tiglari differed in no wise from the apish creatures of the garden.

In helpless abject horror, he waited for the completion of the metamorphosis.. Then he became aware that a man in sober garments, with eyes and mouth filled with the weariness of strange things, was standing before him. Behind the man were two of the sickle-handed iron automatons.

In a somewhat languid voice, the man uttered an unknown word that vibrated in the air with prolonged, mysterious aftertones. The circle of craning flowers drew back from Tiglari, resuming their former upright positions in a close hedge; and the wiry tendrils were withdrawn from his ankles. Hardly able to comprehend his release, he heard a sound of brazen voices, and knew dimly that the demon heads of the columns had spoken, saying:

"The hunter Tiglari has been laved in the nectar of the blossoms of primordial life, and has become in all ways, from the neck downward, even as the beasts that he hunted.”

When the chorus ceased, the weary man in sober raiment came nearer and addressed him:

"I, Maal Dweb, had planned to deal with you precisely as I dealt with Mocair and many others. Mocair was the beast that you met in the labyrinth, with newTHE MAZE OF MAAL DWEB


made fur still sleek and wet from the liquor of the flowers; and you saw some of his predecessors about the palace. However, I find that my whims are not always the same. You, Tiglari, unlike the others, shall at least remain a man from the neck upward; and you are free to resume your wanderings in the labyrinth, and escape from it if you can. I do not wish to see you again, and my clemency springs from another reason than esteem for your kind. Go now: the maze has many windings which you are yet to traverse.”

A great awe was upon Tiglari; his native fierceness, his savage volition, were tamed by the enchanter’s languid will. With one backward look of concern and wonder at Athle, he withdrew obediently, slouching like a huge ape. His fur glistening wetly to the three suns, he vanished amid the labyrinth.

Maal Dweb, attended by his metal slaves, went over to the figure of Athle, which still regarded the mirror with astonished eyes.

"Mong Lut,” he said, addressing by name the nearer of the two automatons at his heels, "it has been, as you know, my caprice to eternalize the frail beauty of women. Athle, like the others before her, has explored my ingenious maze, and has looked into that mirror whose sudden radiance turns the flesh to a stone fairer than marble and no less enduring.... Also, as you know, it has been my whim to turn men into beasts with the copious

fluid of certain artificial flowers,, so that their outer semblance should conform more strictly to their inner nature. Is it not well, Mong Lut, that I have done these things? 'Am I not Maal Dweb, in whom all knowledge and all power reside?”

"Yea, master,” echoed the automaton. "You are Maal Dweb, the all-wise, the all-powerful, and it is well that you have done these things.”

"However,” continued Maal Dweb, "the repetition of even the most remarkable thaumaturgies can grow tiresome after a certain number of times. I do not think that I shall deal again in this fashO

ion with any woman, or deal thus with any man. Is it not well, Mong Lut, that I should vary my sorceries in future? Am I not Maal Dv/eb, the all-resourceful?”

"Indeed, you are Maal Dweb,” agreed the automaton, "and it would no doubt be well for you to diversify your enchantments.”

Maal Dweb was not ill pleased with the answers that the automaton had given. He cared little for converse, other than the iron echoing of his metal servitors, who assented always to all that he said, and spared him the tedium of arguments. And it may have been that there were times when he wearied a little even of this, and preferred the silence of the petrified women, or the muteness of the beasts that could no longer call themselves men.

Monk

By G. G. PENDARVES

Woe be to the luckless man who encounters the Black Monk of

Chaard Island!

YES. It’s true that I’m dictating this, but don’t picture to yourself a famous author, a luxurious study, and a highly paid secretary. No! I’m dictating this for publication because I promised the Abbot of Chaard that I would. I can’t go against his wishes. Not again.

"A ll lies and rubbish! Don’t you be- -Gadieve a word of it, sir. It suits them,” the gamekeeper jerked a thumb in the direction of the monastery behind him, "to keep such fairy-tales alive. Gives them a hold on the people. Everyone on this island believes in the Black Monk, swears they’ve caught sight of him on the prowl. I never have — and why? Because I’m not afraid. It’s all rubbish, so I tell you straight, damned rubbish.”

I looked at Morton. His brown deepset eyes, his wrinkled face, his long lean body in its ancient brown tweeds, even his old leggings and the way he carried his gun and wore his cap expressed contempt. He’d no use for the monks or for anyone else on the island. Stayed because he’d no chance of work elsewhere. Owed everything to the Abbot and hated him in proportion to his debt.

"They give chapter and verse for it at the monastery,” I ventured. "Got old documents. Supposed to be treasure buried here in the Fifth Century when Britain was conquered by the English. Brought by a faithful monk who came up the Thames from Kent. Got across here, buried his treasure, and died on the island,

keeping guard to the end. And he’s still on duty, it appears.”

"Treasure and guardian! Tale for children and the bloody fools that spend their days gabbling prayers when they’d be a sight better digging and planting and weeding on this blamed island of theirs. I’m the only man does a decent day’s work here. And what do I get for it? A damp cottage, wages that don’t even run to a twist of baccy, and a lecture from his reverence when the monastery kitchen isn’t stocked with game to suit him.”

"And so you’ve never caught a glimpse of the Black Monk?” I persisted. "Never seen him by the old fish pond, or pacing the cliffs, or going dowrt the Long Lane after sundown?”

"No, nor never will! The only Black Monk on the island is up at the monastery — that colored fellow from the West Indies. They don’t want anyone blacker than Brother Ignatius. Looks a proper crow with his black habit and black face and all. Not but what I think he’s a deal better in black than in white like these here Benedictines on Chaard.”

"Of course,” I suggested, "you’ve got to remember that some people aren’t able to see things like — well, like the Blade Monk. Just as some people don’t take certain diseases.”

"No one’s ever seen the Black Monk and no one's ever going to see him. Why? Because he don’t happen to be on Chaard Island! The monks keep the old tale going to frighten the people into goTHE BLACK MONK


ing regular to mass and confession. And visitors like it. They go round with eyes popping out of their silly heads. They talk and write things to the papers — see! That’s all advertisement and helps to bring money in. It’s a put-up game and a pack of damned nonsense, I says.”

I left him glooming at his gate and turned down the Long Lane. Morton versus the monks amused me. An idea struck me, result of the recent talk and a most perfect night. A big golden harvest moon was rising. No wind. Mild, almost warm for late October. I’d stay out, all night if necessary, and follow the legendary track of the Black Monk from Pirates’ Bay, where he was said to have landed, to a certain wood where he was popularly supposed to have buried his treasure. No one seemed to have tried to stalk him with any method. No one wanted to follow him. His cowled figure had been glimpsed at various points of his route — ■ dark on the pale sands of the landingbeach — melting into shadows cast by Long Lane’s steep hedges — a hurrying figure on the skyline of high plowed fields — a tall sentinel by the old neglected green-scummed fish pond — or vanishing into the fir wood.

My brief holiday was almost over. I’d got what I came for — an account of the annual Passion Play the monks gave. It would pay my expenses here. A night’s ramble over the romantic island might inspire another article. I lighted a cigarette and made for the beach.

Chaard was settling down for sleep already. The revolving brilliance of its lighthouse grew brighter as lamps went out in cottage windows. Down the Long Lane where nut-trees rustled withered leaves, down past the postoffice cum store that served the island’s needs, down under the walls of the big white monastery with its towers and turrets, its balconies and chime of bells, its red roofs and steep

gables, down to the sand-dunes where tall rushes dipped and whispered in the moonlight, down to the crescent of Pirates’ Bay — its fine pale sand ground by thundering surf that now was a mere murmurous line of white edging distant sea.

There I go... there I go! I apologize. I’ll restrain myself. You’ll understand later why the enchanted background of the island on a supremely lovely night is so difficult for me to keep out of this account. You may forgive a poor devil then for looking back on a lost paradise.

ISAT on an upturned boat, smoked and dreamed, let the long strange history of Chaard Island float across my mind like weed on a shallow pool. An hour — two hours — I don’t know’ how long I sat there. My lighter ran dry at last, I had no matches, and the search for them shook me out of dreams. I felt stiff and rather cold.

"Well, you’re late if you mean to land tonight, old man!”

I spoke aloud, and glanced back across broken rocks that formed one curving horn of my crescent shore. For a moment, actual funk paralyzed me. For a moment I really believed the absurd legend was true. A dark cowled figure was skirting the rocks — moving toward me.

I confess that I didn’t move because literally I couldn’t. When I saw at last who it was, relief was so overwhelming that I fairly went off like a rocket.

"Brother Ignatius! Upon my word, d’you know I took you for the Black Monk himself! You loomed up there in the moonlight as big and black as a nursery bogy.”

The West Indian’s gentle liquid speech was the friendliest sound I’d ever heard.

"You ought not to be here,” he reproved. "The Father- Abbot would not



like it. You are, in a sense, a guest of the monastery since it governs the whole island and its affairs.”

"I’m only, a heretic.” I laughed overloudly. The sound jarred on that quiet lonely shore. “My soul’s more or less lost anyhow in the Abbot’s eyes, I expect.” “Yes,” agreed Brother Ignatius.

I was irrationally annoyed. “Oh, well, live and let live!” I babbled. My nerves still quivered. My tongue clacked like a toy bell.

"It is difficult, sometimes, to know what that means. It is difficult, sometimes, to say what is life and what is — death.”

I’d never realized what a bore the fellow was. I’d rather liked the gentle simple creature before. Now I was irritated. His prosings had broken tire magic spell of the night for me.

"On your way to the monastery, I suppose? I’m going to dawdle about another hour, or-so. Good-night.”

"Not alone! No, really, it is not safe for

you alone here. The Black Monk ”

“That’s why I’m here,” I interrupted the serious quiet voice. "I’m waiting for him. When and if he shows up I’m going to follow him, discover the long-lost secret of his treasure.”

"You don’t understand.” Brother Ignatius was now genuinely perturbed. "It i^ very dangerous for you.”

I made an impatient movement, and half turned to leave him.

"If you wish it so much,” his words came slow and hesitant, "if you have made up your mind — perhaps^r-it would be better that I should — — ”

"Well?”

I looked up and caught the faint glimmer of white teeth as his lips parted in a smile under his cowl’s dark shadow.

"I think the Father- Abbot would forgive me, since you are, in a sense, his guest. Yes, I will show you. I will lead

you to the place where the treasure lies buried.”

"What?”

"Yes. I will take you,” murmured the monk.

"But — there isn’t any treasure! It’s only a wild old tale. What d’you mean?”

“There is treasure — golden glorious treasure,” softly affirmed the other. "And rather than leave you here, alone, I will show you.”

I began to doubt my companion’s sanity. I’d no idea what he was talking about. My journalist’s imagination began to weave a new story. Well, why not go with him? My mood for solitude and a night’s wandering under the moon was gone. I’d humor Brother Ignatius. He was stooping toward me, apparently very keen on his idea.

"Have it your own way,” I agreed. “It may save me from a chill, if not from your friend the Black Monk. By the way, suppose you find him on his job — guarding the treasure!”

"No. You won’t see him there. Not if you are with me.”

The grave reply and the air -with which he turned to cross the sandhills rather took my fancy. Long cloak swaying and billowing in the rising wind, Brother Ignatius strode a few paces ahead. Given the right clothes, I thought, the colored man does redeem movement from the commonplace.

I could see myself, in plus-fours and cap, a discord, an alien figure on that lonely, lovely silvered shore. I could see the monk as a tree whose dark boughs swept the ground or as a wave rising — falling. Part of the earth, possessed by it and possessing it.

"Must be getting a temperature,” I told myself. "If I work any little stunt of that sort into my article they’ll give me the comic-strip to do.”

A new idea struck me.


487,

"I’ve never met any of you before at this hour. Aren’t there rules? I thought the monastery bolted and barred you in your cells long before this.”

W e’d reached the high heathery cliffs above Pirates’ Bay. Brother Ignatius kept the lead. His answer came back on the wind, his cowled head turned to me, and again I caught a flashing glimpse of his gentle smile.

"You forget the weeks for retreat.”

He gestured toward a solitary wooden building not a hundred yards distant.

"Of course. I had forgotten. But — if you’re in retreat — surely you’re breaking your rule now in being here with me.” "The Father- Abbot would put your safety before a rule of this sort. It means, of course, that the month’s solitude must begin again. It was necessary. Nothing else would have taken you from that dangerous shore — nothing except my promise to take you to the treasure.”

I felt uncomfortable. The Abbot had been extremely courteous to me, given me a good many little privileges, allowed me to go where most visitors are forbidden. To interfere with the religious observance of his order was a poor way of acknowledging his consideration.

Then I shrugged off my qualms. I didn’t believe the legend. I didn’t think the Abbot believed it. Brother Ignatius had broken his retreat to save me from a non-existent danger, had insisted on this fantastic expedition, and was, in fact, a little mad. I absolved myself from blame and followed on.

At last we came to a small dense wood in a fissure between Hawk’s Point and Shark’s Fin — two cruel masses of rock jutting out to sea where many ships had piled up in old days. The monk waited.

"Take hold of my cloak,” he advised. "The path is narrow, but I know every

inch of the way. You won’t fall if you follow my lead exactly.”

His cloak, between my fingers, was rough and dry as bark. We plunged into the wood. Dark as a shaft here. Fairly smooth underfoot but an endless, endless way. I protested at last.

"We must be going in circles. The wood’s small enough to cross in five minutes.”

Brother Ignatius stopped as I spoke. "We are here now. Sit down. Sit down on the soft mossy earth and rest.”

•I sank down, feeling as if I’d walked to the other end of the earth. Something, immensely heavy, cold, and round was put into my hands.

“What’s this? Feels like a crown. What a weight! But I can’t see a thing. How: do I know if this is gold or lead?”

"Gold, pure gold.” Brother Ignatius spoke with awe. "And here are plates and goblets and scepters. Here are candlesticks. This is a great jeweled cross that took a lifetime to fashion. This, too, is set with jewels, a little altar lamp, a most precious relic though so small.”

One after another, these things were put into my hands while the monk’s quiet voice expatiated on their beauty. I fingered the small heavy lamp. Exasperation seized me.

"But what’s the use!” I burst out. "It’s absurd to be fumbling away in the dark like this. I want to see them!”

I stood up suddenly, felt the ground slippery underfoot, reached out for support. I called sharply. The monk’s cloak brushed my outstretdied hands. I tried to grasp it, slipped again, plunged forward, hit my forehead a smashing blow against! a tree-trunk and fell heavily.

M y senses returned slowly. Darkness, j like walls of black velvet, shut me in — darkness and warmth. The wood had seemed damp and cold before. I felt hor488


ribly confused. On all sides my hands encountered brush and thorn. Impossible to take any direction in such complete darkness.

"Where are you?’’ I shouted. "Where are you? Hello! Hello! Helloooo! Brother Ignatius, where are you?’’

I went on shouting. Anger and increasing warmth in the dark wood served at least to heat my stiff chilled body. I grew more and more furious. The monk must be mad as a hatter. Why hadn’t anyone warned me about him? Perhaps they hadn’t wanted to discredit their precious monastery.

Exhausted, hungry and thirsty, pricked and scratched with thorns, I sat still and yelled until I was hoarse. When a voice hailed me at last I was in pretty bad shape. I felt like bursting into tears instead of answering. It was the gamekeeper, Morton.

"Have you hurt yourself, sir?”

His strong wiry arm was about my shoulders, raising me to my feet.

"Get me out of this confounded wood, Morton!” I demanded. "I’ve been hours here. That crazy monk, Brother Ignatius, brought me. I was a fool to follow him, of course, but I'd no idea he was mad.”

Morton made no response save by a sudden stiffening of his arm about me.

"Get me out of this wood, d’you hear!” The darkness was becoming a torture now. "Get me out and I’ll explain afterward. I don’t want to spend the rest of the night here.”

“You’re not in any wood.” Morton’s voice seemed choked and indistinct. "You’re in a gorse-patch on a headland right over at the back of the island. I came after rabbits and heard you yelling.”

"But it’s dark! You’re drunk, man, you’re drunk! It’s dark. It’s the middle of the night.”

"It’s eight o’clock in the morning, sir. And the sun’s shining full and early.”

"You’re drunk. You’re lying. It’s perfectly dark. Pitch-black night.”

Then I heard the larks, chimes from the monastery tower for eight o’clock service, chirrup of insects in the grass, lowing of cattle. I knew the truth at last.

I was blind.

"Sir!” Morton’s voice came to me from some remote distance. "It couldn’t ha’ been Brother Ignatius you saw last night. He left the island day before yesterday along with Brother Stephen and the Prior. I rowed ’em ail three to the mainland. No one comes or goes from here without I takes ’em. They won’t none of them be back for a month.”

"You are drunk, after all, disgracefully drunk!” I talked now to fight back my thoughts. “No other monk here wears a black habit except Brother Ignatius. How could I possibly mistake a Benedictine’s white habit for a black one? I tell you I was with Brother Ignatius for hours. I recognized him — his voice, his smile! It was Brother Ignatius.”

Morton didn’t argue. He took me to the monastery. The Abbot heard me out.

"Treasure is buried on this island, I believe.” His slow solemn tone chilled me. "But it v/as not Brother Ignatius whom you met on Pirates’ Beach.”

"But — but- ” I stuttered, "I tell you

I saw him, talked, walked with him for an hour at least.”

"The monk you met was one who has guarded the treasure through centuries. An ancient and cunning guardian.”

"No! No! No! I heard myself; whispering. “There is no such one! I met a man — an ordinary man.”

"You met the Black Monk of Chaard Island, for whose tormented weary soul I pray. And for you in darkness and despair, for you, too, I ask deliverance, my son.”

ther Gods

By H. P. LOVECRAFT

A short weird fantasy by a late great master of bizarre fiction

ATOP the tallest of earth’s peaks /■% dwell the gods of earth, and suf- ■“. fer no man to tell that he hath looked upon them. Lesser peaks they once inhabited; but ever the men from the plains would scale the slopes of rock and snow, driving the gods to higher §tnd higher mountains till now only the last remains. When they left their older peaks they took with them all signs of themselves, save once, it is said, when they left a carven image on the face of the mountain which they called Ngranek.

But now they have betaken themselves to unknown Kadath in the cold waste where no man treads, and are grown stern, having no higher peak whereto to flee at the coming of men. They are grown stem, and where once they suffered men to displace them, they now forbid men to come; or coming, to depart. It is well for men that they know not of Kadath' in the cold waste; else they would seek injudiciously to scale it.

Sometimes when earth’s gods are homesick they visit in the still night the peaks where once they dwelt, and weep softly as they try to play in the olden way on remembered slopes. Men have felt the tears of the gods on white-capped Thurai, though they have thought it rain; and have heard the sighs of the gods in. the plaintive dawn-winds of Lerion. In cloud-ships the gods are wont to travel, and wise cotters have legends that keep them from certain high peaks at night when it is cloudy, for the gods are not lenient as of old.

In Ulthar, which lies beyond the river Skai, once dwelt an old man avid to behold the gods of earth; a man deeply learned in the seven cryptical books of earth, and familiar with the Pnakotic ■Manuscripts of distant and frozen Lomar. His name was Barzai the Wise, and the villagers tell of how he went up a mountain on the night of the strange eclipse.

Barzai knew so much of the gods that he could tell of their comings and goings, and guessed so many of their secrets that he was deemed half a god himself. It was he who wisely advised the burgesses of Ulthar when they passed their remarkable law against the slaying of cats, and who first told the young priest Atal where it is that black cats go at midnight on St. John’s Eve. Barzai was learned in the lore of earth’s gods, and had gained a desire to look upon their faces. He believed that his great secret knowledge of gods could shield him from their wrath, so resolved to go up to the summit of high and rocky Hatheg-Kia on a night when he knew the gods would be there.

Hatheg-Kla is far in the stony desert beyond Hatheg, for which it is named, and rises like a rock statue in a silent temple. Around its peak the mists play always ■ mournfully, for mists are the memories of the gods, and the gods, loved Hatheg-Kla when they dwelt upon it in the old days. Often the gods of earth visit Hatheg-Kla in their ships of cloud, casting pale vapors over the slopes as they dance reminiscently on the summit under a clear moon. The villagers of Hatheg say it is ill to climb Hatheg-Kla at any




time, and deadly to climb it by night when pale vapors hide the summit and tire moon; but Barzai heeded them not when he came from neighboring Ulthar with the young priest Atal, who was his disciple. Atal was only the son of an innkeeper, and was sometimes afraid; but Barzai’s father had been a landgrave who dwelt in an ancient castle, so he had no common superstition in his blood, and only laughed at the fearful cotters.

B arzai and Atal went out of Hatheg into the stony desert despite the prayers of peasants, and talked of earth’s gods by their campfires at night. Many days they traveled, and from afar saw lofty Hatheg-Kla with his aureole of mournful mist. On the thirteenth day they reached the mountain’s lonely base, and Atal spoke of his fears. But Barzai was old and learned and had no fears, so led the way boldly up the slope that no man had scaled since the time of Sansu, who is written of with fright in the moldy Pnakotic Manuscripts.

The way was rocky, and made perilous by chasms, cliffs, and falling stones. Later it grew cold and snowy; and Barzai and Atal often slipped and fell as they hewed and plodded upward with staves and axes. Finally the air grew thin, and the sky changed color, and the climbers, found it hard to breathe; but still they toiled up and up, marveling at the strangeness of the scene and thrilling at the thought of what would happen on the summit when the moon was out and the pale vapors spread around. For.three days they climbed higher and higher toward the roof of the world; then they camped to wait for the clouding of the moon.

For four nights no clouds came, and the moon shone down cold through the thin mournful mists around the silent pinnacle. Then on the fifth night, which

was the night of the full moon, Barzai saw some dense clouds far to the north, and stayed up with Atal to watch them draw near. Thick and majestic they sailed, slowly and deliberately onward; ranging themselves round the peak high above the watchers, and hiding the moon and the summit from view. For a long hour the watchers gazed, whilst the vapors swirled and the screen of clouds grew thicker and more restless. Barzai was wise in the lore of earth’s gods, and listened hard for certain sounds, but Atal felt the chill of the vapors and the awe of the night, and feared much. And when Barzai began to climb higher and beckon eagerly, it was long before Atal would follow.

So thick were the vapors that the way was hard, and though Atal followed on at last, he could scarce see the gray shape of Barzai on the dim slope above in the clouded moonlight. Barzai forged very far ahead, and seemed despite his age to climb more easily than Atal; fearing not the steepness that began to grow too great for any save a strong and dauntless man, nor pausing at wide black chasms that Atal could scarce leap. And so they went up wildly over rocks and gulfs, slipping and stumbling, and sometimes awed at the vastness and horrible silence of bleak ice pinnacles and mute granite steeps.

Very suddenly Barzai went out of Atal’s sight, scaling a hideous cliff that seemed to bulge outward and block the path for any climber not inspired of earth’s gods. Atal was far below, and planning what he should do when he reached the place, when curiously he noticed that the light had grown strong, as if the cloudless peak and moonlit meeting-place of the gods were very near.. And as he scrambled on toward the bulging cliff and litten sky he felt fears more shocking than any he had known before^



Then through the high mists he heard the voice of unseen Barzai shouting wildly in delight:

"I have heard the gods! I have heard earth’s gods singing in revelry on HathegKla! The voices of earth’s gods are known to Barzai the Prophet! The mists are thin and the moon is height, and I shall see the gods dancing wildly on Hatheg-Kla that they loved in youth. The wisdom of Barzai hath made him greater than earth's gods, and against his will their spells and barriers are as naught; Barzai will behold the gods, the proud gods, the secret gods, the gods of earth who spurn the sight of man!”

Atal could not hear the voices Barzai heard, but he was now close to the bulging cliff and scanning it for footholds. Then he heard Barzai’s voice grow shriller and louder:

"The mist is very thin, and the moon casts shadows on the slope; the voice of earth’s gods are high and wild, and they fear the coming of Barzai the Wise, who is greater than they.... The moon’s light flickers, as earth’s gods dance against it; I shall see the dancing forms of the gods that leap and howl in the moonlight.... The light is dimmer and the gods are afraid...

W hilst Barzai was shouting these things Atal felt a spectral change in all the air, as if the laws of earth were bowing to greater laws; for though the way was steeper than ever, the upward path was now grown fearsomely easy, and the bulging cliff proved scarce an obstacle when he reached it and slid perilously up its convex face. The light of the moon had strangely failed, and as Atal plunged upward through the mists he heard Barzai the Wise shrieking in the shadows:

"The moon is dark, and the gods

dance in the night; there is terror in the sky, for upon the moon hath sunk an eclipse foretold in no books of men or of earth’s gods.... There is unknown magic on Hatheg-Kla, for the screams of the frightened gods have turned to laughter, and the slopes of ice shoot up endlessly -into the black heavens whither I am plunging.... Hei! Hei! At last! In the dim light I behold the gods of earth!”

And now Atal, slipping dizzily up over inconceivable steeps, heard in the dark a loathsome laughing, mixed with such a cry as no man else ever heard save in the Phlegethon of unrelatable nightmares; a cry wherein reverberated the horror and anguish of a haunted lifetime packed into one atrocious moment:

"The other gods! The other gods! The gods of the outer hells that guard the feeble gods of earth!... Look away.

... Go back.... Do not see! Do not see! The vengeance of the infinite abysses.... That cursed, that damnable pit.... Merciful gods of earth, I am falling into the sky!”

And as Atal shut his eyes and stopped his ears and tried to jump downward against the frightful pull from unknown heights, there resounded on Hatheg-Kla that terrible peal of thunder w'hich awaked the good cotters of the plains and the honest burgesses of Hatheg, Nir and Ulthar, and caused them to behold through the clouds that strange eclipse of the moon that no book ever predicted. And when the moon came out at last Atal was safe on the lower snows of the mountain without sight of earth’s gods, or of the other gods.

Nov/ it is' told in the moldy Pnakotic Manuscripts that Sansu found naught but wordless ice and rock when he did climb Hatheg-Kla in the youth of the world. Yet when the men of Ulthar and Nir



and Hath eg crushed their fears and scaled that haunted steep by day in search of Barzai the Wise, they found graven in the naked stone of the summit a curious and cyclopean symbol fifty cubits v/ide, as if the rock had been riven by some titanic chisel. And the symbol was like to one that learned men have discerned in those frightful parts of the Pnakotic Manuscripts which were too ancient to be read. This they found.

Barzai the Wise they never found, nor could the holy priest Atal ever be persuaded to pray for his soul’s repose. Moreover, to this day the people of Ulthar and Nir and Hatheg fear eclipses, and pray by night when pale vapors hide the mountain-top and the moon. And above the mists on Hatheg-KIa, earth’s gods sometimes dance reminiscently; for they know they are safe, and love to come from unknown Kadath in ships of cloud and play in the olden way, as they did when earth was new and men not given to the climbing of inaccessible places.

itches on the Heath

By LEAH BODINE DRAKE

Three witches danced on the heath last night, Dancing widdershins round a tree.

Wildly widdershins whirled the three Under a wild and cloud-swept sky.

While a goblin moon roiled high Over the hill where the Old Stones lie;

And their hats were peaked,

And they twittered and squeaked As they danced in the green moonlight.

And out of the boughs of the twisted thorn Came the wail of a violin,

Queer and evil and sad and thin...

And though there was nobody one could see. Somebody played in the twisted tree Queer, sad tunes for the witches three.

Till a lost wind crept From the hills and wept,

And the farm-cocks crowed up the mom!

p Under the Roof

By MANLY WADE WELLMAN

A tale of fear

WHEN I was twelve years old I lived in a shabby old two-story house, built square below and double-gabled above. The four gables contained an upstairs room apiece, each facing a different direction and the entire four making a cross, with a hall and stairwell at the center. The front and side rooms were ceiled and plastered and kalsomined, for bedrooms, but the unfinished rear one held only trunks, boxes and broken furniture. This part of the house was hot and dusty, and open right up to the peak of its gable. Directly above its doorway to the central hall gaped an empty dark triangle, leading into the slant-sided cave above the bedroom ceilings. This lumber-room was called the garret, though it was not a real garret. The real garret was that dark space, up under the roof.

I was the youngest person in the house by more than a decade, and my youth offended everyone bitterly. I was constantly reminded of my childish stupidity and inexperience. Nobody felt that years would mend me, and in time I grew to share that opinion. I tried never to make a statement or venture an opinion that had not been voiced previously by one of my elders. Even at that, I came in for plenty of snubs and corrections, and learned to withdraw into myself. The downstairs parlor was full of books, and I read in them a great deal, including nearly all of an old Encyclopedia Britannica. This taste for reading attracted some curious attention on the part of my guardians; occasionally one of them

would suggest to the others that I might be trained for the law or the ministry. Never was I consulted as to my own ambition, which would have shocked the household. I wanted to be a deep-sea diver.

The summer was a hot one, and my room — in the gable on the right or northern side — had only one window. The sun’s rays fell directly on the sloping walls, which were only the gable’s pitches plastered in, affording little insulation. I slept poorly, bothered by strange and vivid dreams. Sometimes I started awake, itching nervously at armpits and groins, hearing every rustle of the cottonwoods outside and the creakings of the house timbers.

After a while, I am not sure exactly when, I began to hear something else.

Awareness of that sound grew upon me, first slowly and faintly, then with terrifying clarity, over a number of hot, wakeful nights. It was something up above, between the roof-peak and the ceiling, something big and clumsy and stealthy. I remember telling myself once that it was a rat, but the moment the thought came into my head I knew it for a silly lie. Rats skip and scamper, they are light and sure. This was huge and weighty, of a bulk that I judged was far more than my own; and it moved, I say, with a slow, unsure stealth that had sustained rhythm, of a sort. It did not drag or walk, but it moved. Years afterward I saw through a microscope the plodding of an ameba. The thing up under the roof sounded as an ameba looks — a mass




stretching out a thin, loose portion of itself, then rolling and flowing all of its substance into that portion, and so creeping along. Only it must have been many, many thousands of times iarger than an ameba.

Before long I was hearing the noise every night. I would wait for it, lying awake until it humped itself across the ceiling above me. Always with it came fear, fear that did not diminish with time. I would stare in the dark, my tongue would dry up between my teeth, and my fingertips would tingle as though they had been rubbed sore. On my back would sprout and fan and winnow little involuntary wings of chill, making my spine shrink and quiver as though ice mingled with the marrow’. The ceiling, I knew, v’ould descend some night upon me like a great millstone, then crumble about my bed. Something huge and soft would wriggle free of the broken bits and sprawl upon me.

There could be no talking about the business, I well knew. Long before, I had learned that nobody would listen or care. As I have said, I was resented by the other dv'ellers in that house. Once, when a neighbor boy of fifteen gave me a terrible beating in the front yard, everyone watched from our front window’s, but none stirred to help me, not even when J thought I w’ould fall dead at my enemy’s scornful feet. When, tired of pulping my face with his knuckles, he turned away at last, I dragged myself in and was tonguelashed on all sides for an hour. Today I cannot remember exactly what was.urged against me s but the tears I had not shed for pain welled forth under the scolding. Things like that made me hesitate about asking for help. One morning I did inquire at breakfast if the others had heard anything strange; but I was only reprimanded for interrupting a discussion of local politics.

T hat night the noise was louder and more terrifying than ever. It began above some other room, and then it trundled along my ceiling, slower and still slower until it paused just over my bed. It seemed to me at that moment that the lath and plaster were no tighter or stronger than a spider-web, and that the entity was incalculably more awful than the prince and father of all spiders. It crouched there, almost within reach of me, gloating and hungering, turning over in its dark mind the problem of when and how to take hold of me.

I could not have stirred from my bed, could not have cried out even.

The thing and its fear were with me always, night after night and week after week, until a day past the middle of the summer, a dark and rainy day when it did not wait for nightfall.

I w r as alone in the house, tired of hearing the rain and the swish of wet leaves outside. I had exhausted the books in the parlor, and remembered a stack of illustrated magazines, very old, in the lumberroom. I climbed the stairs. The lumberroom was unthinkably ugly and close, with a sort of brown light reflected by the unpainted joists and the insides of the shingles. I found the magazines and began to paw through them.

All had been silent, except for the rain outside. But, in the midst of my searchings, there came a hump-hump from overhead, from the opening that led above the ceilings. Something sly and heavy was there, looking down upon me.

But in one scrambling moment I had fled downstairs and to the front door.

It was no swelling of courage that made me pause before rushing out — only a sensible, if hopeless, consideration of what must follow. I could leave the house and mope in the rainy street until someone came back. Then I would have to



come back, too, and in time I would have to go to bed. Then the creature that made the noise would come down; it would wait no longer, for it had seen me and my tortured terror. It would flow to the floor, through my door and creep into bed with me. I would know how it looked, what color it was, and what it wanted with me.

A cold determination came, I know not whence, stiffening.my limbs and neck like new sawdust poured into an empty doll. I walked slowly back through the house to the foot of the stairs. There I paused, trying to lift myself to the bottom step. I could not, and turned and walked to the back porch. There, upon the wood-box, lay a hand-ax. It was dull and rusty, and wobbled upon its helve, but I took it and this time I mounted the steps — slowly — one after another, with long, tight breaths between. The old boards creaked under my feet, as if aghast at my foolish daring. I reached the upper hall, and went back into the lumber-room.

It had turned darker than when I had first come to find the magazines. I made myself look up at the triangular opening, and that took a mustering of all my willpower, but there was nothing to see. I stuck the handle of the ax into the waistband of my knickerbockers, and dragged a heavy, dust-laden old bureau over against the w 7 all by the door. On that I placed a broken chair; then a candle-box, precariously on end. At last I climbed up on the bureau, up on the chair, up on the box. My chin came level with the threshold of the black cavern. It was like gazing into a pool of ink. I got hold of a cross-timber and drew myself slowly up. The candle-box tipped over and fell from beneath my feet, striking the floor of the

lumber-room with a crash like an explosion. But next moment I had dragged myself up inside the loft. The roof -peak was so low above my head that I could barely rise to my knees.

I pulled out the ax and tried to hold it in my mouth, like a pirate’s dirk. But it was too big and heavy, so I kept it in my right hand. Then, on my knees and my left hand, I went forward on top of the rafters. Every inch took me deeper into darkness, and when I reached and crept past a big rough chimney I might as'' well have been in a coal mine.

First I went straight to the front of the house. I felt all along the wall, and into the corners. Then I dragged myself around. I could see the light at the far end, partly obstructed by the chimney.; Crawling back, I explored gropingly the space above the south bedroom. Last of all I drove myself into the chamber above my own room, where I had always heard the sounds.

I found nothing.

I always finished with those three words when, grown up enough to be listened to, I told this story in after years., But I knew then, and I know now, that there was something, or that there had been something. Until I drove myself to face it, that something had been a mortal peril. Had I done anything else, it would have come looking for me. What would have followed, I am sure nobody can think.

But from that time forward there was not the slightest murmur of noise up under the roof. I grew to sleep so soundly that I had to be shaken in the mornings. Nor did I ever know fear again, not even in the war,

Uh - <9i*«

Story in the World*

By MURRAY LEINSTER

WeiRD JTl

ft RtPRINT

THE man who told me this story said that it was the oldest story in the world, and that it happened a hundred thousand years ago. But somehow, I disbelieve him. He was very drunk and his eyes were a trifle too bright and his hair was quite remarkably disheveled, so it is possible that he was somewhat mixed in his statistics.

He came over to my table in the jar din de Paris, which is a place in the city of Rangoon some thousands of miles frqm the real Paris, and as many leagues removed from anything Parisian. For one thing, the stench of the Guleh-Wat is all too near, and it is a mingled odor of incense and stale lotus and nipa blossoms and very, very unwashed huqaan. beings who come there to worship. And then, too, one may look out over the river and see the sandbars, wdth an occasional vulture perched there, critically inspecting some especially unattractive thing that floated down with the current. And of course there are snub-nosed British

* From WEIRD TALES for August, 1925.


tramps, and very natty and not quite clean Japanese cargo-boats, and pot-bellied Chinese junks, and the river craft of Siam, who deserve an adjective all to themselves. The Jardin de Paris is, moreover, some two continents removed from and a hundred years behind anything French, and it is two shillings rickshaw fare from the British legation.

He came over to my table and begged me not to finish the drink I had before me, because the grenadine made it red. He told me that one could have green drinks, made with absinthe, or white ones made with gin and limes, or purple ones and yellow champagne, but that I should not drink red drinks because they were like rubies and in consequence abominable beyond the imagination of men. They had been cursed for a hundred thousand years, he said, ever since the raja of Barowak laughed. And therefore, if I would have a waiter take my red drink away, not spilling any of it, being especially careful not to spill any of it, he would buy me thousands of green or

W. T.— 7



white or purple drinks, and he would sit down beside me and tell me the oldest story in the world.

And naturally, I listened.

T o get to Kosar in the old days (so the man with the disheveled hair told me) one went by Bitab and Pulat through the Molanasian Pass, which led to the country of the Sakai where it was necessary to travel very carefully because they used poisoned arrows and lay in wait for strangers. And one would begin to hear tales of Kosar by the campfires somewhere around Ghal, and the tales would become quite definite in the bazars of Talt. There you would hear of the raja of Kosar, of his falling-down palaces and his half-starved guard, of his two mangy elephants and the exaggerated penury of the whole tiny kingdom — save for the jewels he wore on occasions of state. And they were worth more than the whole of his realm. They were rubies, and the largest -was as big as a man’s closed fist, and the next were as large as a man’s thumb, and there were rubies of all sizes from thence on down to small, glittering red stones no bigger than a grain of sand. Very precious ■were the rubies, and very carefully guarded. It was death to come within ten paces of the raja when he wore them, and no one save only the raja and the ranee, his queen, knew where they were hid.

It was in Talt that a certain man came to believe that they actually existed. He was a white man and had fled from the seacoast because he had killed a man over a gambling-game and feared the law of his nation. He was in Talt, living with a dancing-girl who was very proud to belong to a white man, and in consequence gave him all her earnings. He lived in her house because she loved him, and he felt safe from the law's of his nation, and had no worry over the means W. T.— 8

of living so long as her love continued. At ease, then, he spent much time in the bazars learning to pass as a native of the country he lived in, in case he needed disguise for farther flight. And in the bazars he heard tales of Kosar, and of the rubies, and from the dancing-girl he learned jnany other strange things. In particular, he learned the language which is spoken in Kosar and Barowak and the states between them. It is a cursed language (so the man with the bright eyes told me) which wise men take care to have no knowledge of. But the white man was not wise.

He had much knowledge of sorts it is not well for a white man to have, however, and he had a plan which made him desire to have more. Pie knew, for example, of the secret cult of Khayandra, the god of the elephant’s trunk, which is knowledge that only princes and ranees may possess. The god Khayandra is one of the two gods of birth and causes male children to be born, while Visayana causes females. The knowledge of this secret is confined to princes, of course, because otherwise their people might worship successfully and there would be only menchildren born in their domains and no women to bear yet other men.

The secrets of this cult seemed to promise much to the white man, a hundred centuries ago, and so he began to make his preparations. To rid himself of the dancing-girl he resorted to a drug, and sold her to a merchant on his way to China. She had loved him, and for months she had kept him in her house because of her love, but he needed to be rid of her before he could go on to Jolun, and Halak, and through the mountains to Kosar.

He journeyed in that direction for a matter of weeks with the mark of Khayandra on his forehead, and that mark is something like a worm, and something



like an elephant’s trunk, and two of them joined together make a perfect circle.

He came to the city, then, and saw its walls falling, and men nearly naked in the streets from poverty, and children fighting with dogs for bits of food. Kosar was decayed from her ancient splendor, and vultures perched upon her ruined ramparts, and grass grew in many abandoned streets, and the palace of the raja was growing up with weeds save for the small part that was still inhabited.

The white man reached Kosar on a day when the raja showed himself to his people, and saw twenty horsemen upon stunted spindling steeds driving away the people from a street that was lined with once magnificent palaces that had belonged to the nobles when Kosar was a mighty kingdom. And then there came possibly a hundred soldiers, ragged and unkempt, struggling to make a show with faded finery. And then two elephants, mangy and uncared for, with the raja on the second. All else in the city and the kingdom was poor and mean and faded, even the howdah of the raja’s mount, but the jewels gleamed the more brightly for the tawdriness of their surroundings.

They glittered like blood, they sparkled like flames, they were a blaze of sheer magnificence upon a small, weary, dark-.' skinned man who extracted some weak, vain satisfaction from the looks his people cast upon those rubies. There were no guards near the raja, because it was death to come within ten paces when he wore the jewels of state. And it was possibly due to the lack of guards that a child, barely toddling, escaped from its mother and advanced with curious steps toward the ponderous bulk of the slow-moving elephant. The raja saw it coming near. It was ten paces, seven, five, from his sacred personage.

He nodded negligently, and a spearman darted into the circle that was about the jewels. The scream of the mother was very terrible...,

T he man with the disheveled hair, who was telling me this story in the Jardin de Paris, in Rangoon, stopped suddenly. He looked across to another table where a man I knew was taking a seat. A waiter was coming with a glass in which was the counterpart of the drink I had discarded. It is one part limes and one part gin and one part grenadine, with ice and carbonated water, and it is very satisfying.

"He — he is going to drink the red drink!” cried the man with the disheveled hair, in distress. "And the red drink is the color of rubies!”

The man I knew caught my eye, and I beckoned him to come over. His name was Gresham, and he. was officially a superintendent of constabulary under the Siamese government, but he was as British as it was possible for a man to be, and I know that he made his reports in duplicate, one copy of which went to his legation.

"Gresham,” I said coaxingly, "won’t you join us and have a drink? My friend here is telling me about Kosar.”

Gresham slipped into a seat and nodded brightly.

"I know Kosar,” he said unexpectedly.; "Had to go up there and argue with the raja. Beastly tumble-down place. The raja was spearing people that came within a certain sacred limit of his person. Silly stunt. Had some amazin’ rubies, though.; You’ve been there?”

He was talking to the man with the disheveled hair, but that person was looking fearfully at the waiter who had followed Gresham with his drink. I explained gently to Gresham, and he sent



the drink away. He began to' look very thoughtful, suddenly.

"You say you’ve been to Kosar?” he repeated slowly.

I interrupted, and told him that I was hearing the oldest story in the world, which was a matter of some consequence to a man of my profession. Other things could wait.

The man with the disheveled hair had lost the thread of his story by this time, however, and I had to prompt him to get him back on the track.

T he white man prospered in Kosar.

There were those who knew of the meaning of the mark on his forehead, and they paid court to him because he could dispense the favors of Khayandra. He had horses and slaves and food waiting for him when he received a secret summons from the palace. It was from the ranee, the wife of the raja, and she met the white man with tears in her eyes and something of fear upon her countenance.

"You must pray to the god Khayandra,” she told him, wringing her hands. "You must implore the god to be merciful.”

The white man knew what she had to say, because it had been a part of his planning that she should say just this. But he feigned ignorance. In his pretended character of a priest he asked, "What do you wish of the god Khayandra, whose name not many know?”

And she told him. The raja was growing weary of her, and she loved him. He had no son to carry on his name and was debating within himself the purchase of other and younger wives. He -would even sell one or more of his rubies to secure young and fruitful girls of great beauty. The ranee wept as she told the white man

of this, thinking him a priest of the god of births.

"The god will hear you,” said the white man, pointing to the mark on his forehead. "By this mark he wall hear you, if you make proper sacrifice.”

And she wept again, and told of her poverty, of the poverty of all the whole realm where the raja’s palaces fell to ruins for lack of revenues to keep them in repair, while the raja clung close to his rubies, in worth more than the whole kingdom.

■' "Those rubies,” said the false priest of Khayandra, his eyes glittering strangely; "show me those rubies. Let me touch the mark upon my forehead with the greatest of all the rubies, and the god will grant your prayer.”

"But it is death to approach them,” cried the ranee, again wringing her hands, "save only for the raja himself.”

Here the false priest turned away, and the ranee flung herself upon the floor before him, pleading. And he was obdurate.

With a cloak flung about her and a single taper in her hand, she led him down deep and dark damp passages, where molds grew upon the walls, and where the air was heavy wdth the scents of decay. Once she crept softiy past a sleeping guard. Twice she pressed secret springs, and seeming solid blocks of stone opened before them. Twice she shuddered as she led the way within.

And then they came to a place where there was a moldy European carpet upon the floor of a tiny, rock-walled room. And there were rickety chairs there, and a table that was falling to pieces from the damp. And in a chest, quite unlocked, she showed him the rubies.

They glowed and gleamed and glittered by the ray of the single taper. The white man, disguised as a priest of Khayandra,



caught his breath as he looked at them. They were men’s lives, and women’s honors, and war, and famine, and pillage. They were all luxuries, and all things desirable, and they were things that caught at a man’s heart and held it fast, so that he coveted them fiercely and could not rest until he possessed them.

"Here,” said the ranee, catching her breath in a sob, "here is my sacrifice to the god Khayandra. I have betrayed my lord through love of him, that the god Khayandra may grant my prayer for his honor.”

And the white man, in his strange robes of a hidden priesthood, threw back his head and laughed.

"Come here, then,” said he, "and I will show you proof of the god’s reward.”

And she stood before him, hopeful that her prayer would be answered, yet unhappy because she had betrayed a secret of her lord. And the white man made a sudden movement, and a knife glinted momentarily in the dim light of the taper. She did not cry out save once, but the taper fell from her fingers and was extinguished. And then in the darkness there was no sound save the suddenly stealthy movements of the white man as he groped in the chest and hid things away in corners of his robe, and in his head-dress. He was suddenly very much afraid, because the rubies were his, now, and he was in a strange panic lest other men hear of it and kill him for them.

He made his way back through the damp and moldy passages, feeling tire walls with his fingers. When he came to the place where there was a guard, the man was stirring drowzily beside his light, and the white man leaped upon him suddenly from behind.

He felt queerly secure, then, and wiped his knife carefully before he made his way unseen out into the ruined streets of the fallen city of Kosar.

M y glass was empty, and I rapped on it as a signal for the waiter to bring another drink. The man with the too-bright eyes and the disheveled hair was leaning forward upon the table. His expression was curious — that of one who sees incredible things. I began to suspect that he had the horrors, but Gresham was listening intently. He yawned, however, when the man stopped.

"Beastly unpleasant yarn, this,” he remarked casually.

"Which happened,” I commented skeptically, "a hundred thousand years ago. And I still don’t see why rubies are accurst.”

"That was because the raja of Sarawak laughed.” The man with the disheveled hair shivered uncontrollably, and his eyes, which were too bright, began to look rather alarming. I was growing rather bored, and it began to be apparent to me that the man only had the horrors.

Certainly there was no other reason why one dressed so carefully and so well should have his hair in a tangled, matted mass on his head, as if no comb had been through it in weeks or months. And I guessed at the horrors because they are not infrequent in hot climates with strong liquors, and they often make a man have queer aversions to some small thing. I knew a man once, who would not cut his nails for a year and a half and could do no work in consequence until he sold his nails to a Chinaman who wanted to send evidence home that he had prospered. But that, after all, has nothing to do with this. It was Gresham who prodded on the stranger to the rest of his yarn.

"I know the raja of Barowak,” he commented sympathetically. "He has an odd sense of humor. Had some pigs,

once, put in china jars ”

He laughed. The stranger shivered again. "It was a hundred thousand years ago....”



The scents from the Guleh-Wat came over the wall as he went on, mingled odors of incense and stale flowers and cooked food and particularly unwashed humanity. A colossal temple bell clanged slowly, far over the city. Sunset was upon us, and the big moths that flutter in the tropics began to fly about, clumsily, because it was still light. The man with the disheveled hair clutched firmly at his glass. It was full of a green liquid.

T he white man went swiftly away from Kosar (so he told us) only anxious to get beyond the reach of the raja’s half-starved guard. He was very much afraid. He v/as terrified by his own shadow, and it seemed to him that everyone who passed him must know of the jewels he had hidden about his garments. He fled hurriedly through Raman and Khota to Barowak. And constantly he became more and more afraid. In Raman there were few who knew what the mark on his forehead meant. In Khota there was none. He ceased to be regarded with profound respect, and he considered that as a sign of suspicion.

When he saw the walls of the city of Barowak below him, he was in terror. He ordered camp to be made, and the slaves who had been given him in exchange for his prayers pitched his tent and watched over him while he slept, or seemed to sleep. Actually, he was making a hiding-place beneath his bed for the jewels. He buried them deeply, and in the morning he went on to the city of Barowak alone, leaving his slaves to guard his tent. He was a clever man, the white one, and he knew that they would never suspect that he had left about them a treasure more precious than the kingdom of Kosar.

He went down into the city, and by means of his knowledge of the languages

they speak in Barowak he mingled in the crowds and listened to the talk in the bazars. And he heard no word of Kosar save of the rubies of the raja and his falling-down palaces, and the people hungry while the raja wore jewels, in value greater than his whole domain besides. And then a great contentment settled upon the white man. He knew that no word of his most marvelous theft had preceded him through the kingdoms. He became intoxicated with security, and knew that he had only to travel onward to China where in a certain city there was a man who would buy of him whatever he chose to sell, when he could go far from the sea and build himself a secret palace with many dancing-girls and much wine and live in endless delight from thence onward.

He was a great man, and a wise man, so he felt, and it was already time for him to begin the enjoyment of his treasure. He began to look hungrily at the wines and sweetmeats, and to think obscure and evil thoughts concerning the women he saw about him. He debated on the purchase of dancing-girls. He had been so long among dark races that he had almost forgotten that he was a white man.

Surely it was not the thought of a white man that made him throw back his head and laugh aloud in the bazar at Barowak. He had heard that the ranee of Barowak was most beautiful of all women. And it was no more than fitting that he who had taken the jewels of Kosar should likewise take for himself the pearl of Barowak. His garb had been perfect for the first of his purposes, and was no less adapted to the second.

He went and held a secret consultation with an old female slave of the palace..,.



T he mark on his forehead was a sign to make the doors of women open to him, and to make women anxious to please him. He could grant or withhold the favor of the god Khayandra, the mark told those who were v/ise enough to understand it. And women desire that god’s favor, and in particular, the wives of rajas desire it.

She gave him cooling drinks with her own hands, and watched him anxiously as he sat at ease beside a small marble pool, all ringed about with marble, while a scented fountain played in the stillness. She was desirous of making him welldisposed toward her, but she seemed a little frightened, too.

“Why have you fear?’’ he asked, as she listened apprehensively to some retreating footsteps.

“My lord knows not the worship of Khayandra,” she told him. “But if I may please the god in any way...

The white man was drunk with his power, which lay hidden in the ground among the hills that looked down on the city. His power was in small red stones, the largest of which was the size of a man’s fist, but they glittered very wonderfully, and most men would have sold their souls for one of the smallest of them. The white man, disguised as a priest of Khayandra, thought of those stones glittering in the dark damp earth, waiting for his coming, and the thought intoxicated him. He looked upon the woman before him and found her pleasing. She was proud of carriage, and small of foot, and graceful. A.nd her dips were very, very red, almost as red as the rubies the white man had stolen, and her eyes were like other jewels he did not possess.

"The god Khayandra,” he murmured, looking at her obliquely, "desires to show you his favor. And I am his priest.”

Had he been a wiser man, he would have seen that the light that came upon

her face was from a thought of another than him, but his own heart w r as puffed up with pride, and full to bursting with vanity. And there was much evil in his eyes, which blinded him. He did not see stealthy figures creeping up behind him, nor read aright the sudden terror that overcame her as he reached out his hand to touch her.

An arm crept about his throat and tightened. And a cold, wavy blade pressed against his side, and then two men flung themselves upon his feet before he could more than gasp from a sudden very terrible fear. Then he saw small, monkeylike eunuchs fling themselves upon the ranee Sahnya, and bind her fasti Then they grinned at him while one more monkey-like than the rest squatted on his haunches and made signs to the white man. The monkey-like man could not speak, because his tongue was cut out, — which told with horrible clarity of tortures that were in store for the false priest of Khayandra.

T he white man had forgotten that though he might be very powerful, because of certain red stones hidden in the damp earth, he had ventured from pride and lust into the palace of the raja of Barowak, and that the raja was jealous of his honor, besides being possessed of a peculiar sense of humor. The white man went pale to his very liver, from certain foreknowledge of what was to come to him. He had forgotten the mark on his forehead.

One of the eunuchs vanished, bearing a message, and presently returned. He made signs to the others, and the white man was lifted up and carried for a long distance through gloomy corridors of stone, while those who carried him giggled to themselves at what was to befall him. He could only writhe. But the ranee Sahnya made no struggle.


50J

They brought him at last to a little courtyard where there was a fountain, and the raja of Barowak sitting on a divan, half asleep, while a pallid, plump man with spectacles read to him from a book. It was a curious book to be in such a place. It was printed in English, and the babu was reading from it with great unction, and then translating what he had read into the accurst language which is spoken in Barowak.

The raja of Barowak looked up sleepily when the white man was flung down upon the stone floor.

"How did he find entrance?” he asked drowzily. "Slay those who let him in.”

And then he nodded again to the plump man with the spectacles, and he went on with his reading. The raja listened only half -attentively. Behind his sleepy eyes thoughts were moving slowly. After a long time he smiled to himself.

"Stay. What is the name of that book?”

The babu puffed out a little.

"It is the History of the Spanish Inquisition.” He read the title in English, and then translated.

The raja grinned like one who is very drowzy.

"And what was that other one, from which you read this morning?”

The babu picked up a volume which was lettered: Arthurian Legends. Truly those were strange books to be in such a place, but the white man who lay bound there, waiting to learn in what fashion he was to die, did not think of that. He was remembering tales he had heard concerning the various unpleasant things a man may endure before death comes to him. He had heard that with care an expert torturer could keep one alive for four, even five days, in torment that would make hell a haven of infinite repose by contrast.

The ranee still was silent. The raja

looked at her without particular malice, but rather as one who is meditating upon some jest.

"What is your excuse, O Sahnya?” he asked mildly. "Doubtless you love the man.”

"Nay, my lord. But he is a priest of the god Khayandra, and I had supplication to make of his deity.”

The raja said nothing whatever, but he looked very carefully at the mark on the white man’s forehead. The white man took courage and spoke loudly, threatening the raja with the wrath of Khayandra. And the raja smiled again, seemingly half asleep.

"But the priests of Khayandra,” he murmured softly, "have that mark indelibly upon their foreheads, and yours is running down your face from the cold sweat of terror.” He began to laugh suddenly. "O white man, you have had your skin stained brown for many months, but the nails have grown out from your fingers, and the base of your nails is like the nails of the white men. This is a j est., I shall judge you by the laws of the white men.”

The white man would have groveled in the earth, then, but that he was tied.; The raja laughed, rocking his body back and forth.

"The raja Arthur, with his tuans, had many strange customs. There was that notion of the ordeal. I shall put you two to the ordeal. One of you shall live. And the other...”

The ranee spoke very softly, and very quietly. She was pleading for her life, but she spoke very softly. The raja waved her aside.

"This white man’s custom of chi — ■

chi ” He looked at the babu, and the

babu puffed out and said, "Chivalree, sar.” The raja chuckled and murmured, “Chivalree. It means that a man always



dies for a woman. It is very foolish. You two may decide which is to die, and which is to go free.”

The white man began to plead in an agony of pleading, struggling with his fear-stiffened tongue until the froth welled from his lips, begging, imploring the raja to slay the woman with many tortures, but to let him go free.

But the woman merely said, "If he is a false priest, kill him.”

The raja looked disappointed. He had perhaps looked for a comedy wherein each would beg for the other’s life. This matter convinced him against his will that the woman was innocent, but he had no mind to lose his jest.

"Then you may buy your freedom, or she may buy hers,” he said, still hopeful of diversion. "And the one who fails to pay the greater price shall test out some of the things that are in this book.”

He indicated the fatter of the two books, from which the babu had been reading.

"It is vairy instructive, sar,” said the babu, lapsing into English in his excitement. "This feeding a man powdered diamond, sar. He lingers for months, with many peculiar pains, sar. I — I was jeweler’s clerk in Bombay, sar, an’ I could fix ”

He began to rustle in the pages of the book and read excitedly, while the raja listened drowzily. The rack was there described in detail, and the torment of thumbscrews, and of the boot, and the other devices with which the Inquisition had operated upon men’s religious convictions.

He read on and on, his translations growing more and more enthusiastic as he described the tortures that had been devised by holy men. He was especially pleased by the device of clipping off the

eyelids and staking a man out in the sun.

But the raja merely drowzed, until presently he said suddenly:

"Let them name the prices they will pay for mercy.”

And then there was silence for a long time, while the white man’s soul writhed. On the one hand, the prospect of staring with lidless scorched eyes up at a pitiless tropic sun for days or weeks or months, with other tortures yet to follow, the rack, and the boot, and flame, and water dripping until death came. And on the other hand, the giving up of his rubies, his priceless,.precious rubies that glittered with a red fire that was neither of land nor sea.

He gave an agonized cry at the thought, but terror drove him, and he offered rubies for his life. The largest was the size of a man’s fist and those next in size as large as a man’s thumb, and so on down to tiny glittering stones no bigger than a grain of sand. He offered them all, despairingly, for his life.

And the raja looked sleepily at the woman.

"And what is your price that you will pay for life?”

And she said just two words, which the white man did not hear.

Then the raja smiled very curiously, and bade his servants go and dig up the rubies that the white man had described, and as he saw them go, all the anguish and bitterness in the v/hite man’s heart turned to venom against the woman whom he had coveted to this loss, and he made a bargain with the raja that if the rubies v/ere as he said, that he should be able to ask one demand.

And he lay bound in the sunlight, full of an unspeakable anguish at the loss of his rubies, until the men came back with his treasure.



The raja looked at them sleepily, and allowed the babu to touch and finger them. He made no move to examine them himself. But the white man, seeing all his wealth passing forever from his hands, cried out horribly.

"My demand! I make my demand!” 'And the raja gazed at him, drowzily. "The life of that woman! Kill her with torments!”

The white man sank back upon the stone flooring and moaned with anguish at the red stones going from him forever.

And then the babu looked up and smiled very placidly and said, "These are the rubies of the raja of Kosar, sar. I took them to him from Bombay, sar, when I was jeweler’s clerk. He was very poor an’ could make no display, so he had these jewels made for state occasions, sar, an’ they are made out of glass.”

Through the stunned horror of the white man there came a curious sound. It was the raja, laughing. He was laughing at the jest of a man trying to buy his own life and the death of a woman with bits of colored glass which were paste and not precious stones at all. He was particularly amused at the white man’s trying to buy the death of a woman who had offered a very great price for her life. She had offered him a son, concerning whom she had wished to make prayers to the god Khayandra. It diverted the raja of Barowak to think of a man trying to exchange trumpery bits of trash for so priceless a gift, and he was minded to carry out the jest to its only fitting conclusion, with the aid of the Arthurian Legends and the History of the Spanish Inquisition. He gave orders, laughing uncontrollably....

T he man with the disheveled hair was staring, now, as if he saw terrifying things. He drank of his green drink and shuddered. Gresham was listening very

intently, and perhaps for the first time in his life did not notice that we were becoming a bit conspicuous. The voice of the man with the disheveled hair had grown louder, toward the last.

T he raja of Barowak gave orders, laughing, and men departed swiftly north and south and east and west to scour the whole world for red things. They brought red cloths and red woods and red stones and red dyes. And they took whole rivers and made them red with the dyes that they had brought. And then they took the white man and sat him in a red chair, binding him very securely, - and so that he could not move, nor even open his jaws to scream. And then for a hundred years they left him.

They did not touch him. They did not beat him. They did not harm him in any smallest way, but from some spot far overhead a tiny drop of red-tinted water fell down upon his head. Once every second it fell, deliberately, inexorably, never late, never early, never varying by the thousandth fraction of an inch from the one spot where it fell.

From taps the blows rose to hammerblows ’and then to mighty, horrible collisions that jarred his brain to its very foundations. The inevitable monotony of it grew terrible, horrifying, of a sort to drive away sanity. The white man began to make noises in his throat by the end of the first year. By the hundredth year he was screaming through forcibly dosed lips.

Then they took him away, and he slept for a day. And then they took him back for another hundred years, but he was forgotten, and they left him for a thousand generations, while he screamed and screamed and the water fell remorselessly, drop by drop, drop by drop, upon the one same spot upon his skull.

And then he was released for a single



day, while he knew that the raja and all his descendants must have died and been forgotten, and hoped that they had forgotten the cause of his doom, or the length of it. But they put him back again and again, and yet again, until he knew that he must wait patiently, until all the armies of the world could find no more red dye with which to tint the rivers, and the rivers had run dry, and there was no.more water in the earth. He sat on his reddened throne and screamed endlessly because a tiny drop of water fell drip... drip... drip., B upon a single tiny spot upon his skull.

And he stayed there a hundred thousand years.

N ight had fallen in the Jardin de Paris, in Rangoon, and the boats on the river were no more than dark bulks from which many-colored lights shone out serenely. The scents of the GulehWat, over the wall, grew thin. The incense became stale. The hibiscus and the nipa blossoms and the lotus flowers took on a queer, sickly smell that was the odor of premature decay. The night insects were fluttering about our heads with an exaggerated energy.

Gresham coughed suddenly.

"Poor beggar,” he said, not ungently. "I sh’d think that would drive a man crazy. Fancy a drop of water on one tiny spot that you couldn’t vary! It ’ud make a man hysterical, I imagine.”

The man with the disheveled hair turned too-bright eyes upon us.

"It lasted for a hundred thousand years,” he said lucidly, "so, naturally, he cursed rubies, because everything about him all that time was the color of rubies and the water that fell was always tinted like rubies. It looked like them as it fell, glittering....”

"I wonder,” I said, ruminating, "if it

would have to fall on a special part of a man’s skull to drive him crazy. I’ve heard of it, of course.”

The man with the disheveled hair told me that it would not, that it had fallen all over the white man’s head, but in each imprisonment only upon the one spot. He told me accurately just where it fell each time, but curiously, he did not raise his hand to his head to illustrate.

Gresham lighted a cigarette very thoughtfully. He had hardly paid attention to the last of this talk.

He made a sudden impatient gesture.

"Look here, Leinster,” he said abruptly to me, with an undercurrent of meaning and perplexity in his voice. "I’m supposed to arrest a certain chap. I’m in the constabulary, y’know, and you can guess why I ought to arrest him. But — dash it all! What’d you do?”

The man with the disheveled hair was lying slumped back in his seat, and he was staring with an infinite pleasure at the greenness of his drink as it showed in the dim lights the Jardin de Paris provides.

"A hundred thousand years,” he murmured, and shuddered. "Drip,.. drip *.. drip..

A waiter passed behind him and stumbled just a little. In stumbling, he raised his arm to catch himself and a single drop of red liquid slopped over the edge of the glass. It fell on the head of the man with the disheveled hair.

And in an instant he had caught the arms of his chair in a frenzied grasp and was sitting upright in a queerly rigid position, as if he were tied there. His face was terrible to look upon and his eyes were fixed. And he began to scream in a certain horrible monotony, as if he had been screaming for a hundred thousand years.

AROLINE FERBER writes from Chicago: "Groggy with h eat, we remain faithful to our trust — yessuh — the monthly letter to WT must be written. Among other things, have been wondering if Virgil Finlay has recovered sufficiently to draw some more purty pix for us. The late Eadie left us with a nice chiller — The WolfGirl of fosse lin — too bad he is no longer among us. His stories were always welcome. Whew! Seabury Quinn threw a new lite on poisoned breath. Certainly some of these garlic feasters enjoy little popularity, and though one is staggered at times, at least it is not fatal. Why, that little old dried-up meanie! Do all these Hindoos bear grudges for so long? Shuddery? Yesindeedy! Mm — yummy — another lovely young Amazon, and leading a band of fair, flaxen-haired people! The Fire Princess is one of those yarns relished with gusto and to be dreamed of many a time after. Tell me, do I detect a slight resemblance to that grand movie, Lost Florizon? Also I enjoyed Howard’s verse, Lines Written in the Realization that I Must Die. Green Horror, although not so much the type of story I really like, was short enough to keep it interesting. Had it been stretched out, it would have been a boresome squirmer. As it stands, the author kept me in a state of suspense. There now, I had a feeling that Varduk in The Black Drama was the supposedly long-dead Lord Byron! Author Field knows how to turn out a fine yarn. I trust we will get to read more of the kindly Judge Pursuivant for many a long time. Right behind is a story rather unusual, although supplying the ghost element. Dead Dog wasn’t bad. Derleth’s tale of the Three Gentlemen in Black wasn’t bad, more to my liking than some of his previous tales. Ah! — Lovecraft’s The Tree was styled in the grand manner of the ancient mysteries. So

much was said, yet so much left untold. It is readings like these that make one sigh and wonder at cruel nature to deprive us of such grand genius. Whoever J. Schlossel might be is a puzzle, but the reprint Invaders from Outside was good — very much so. This is one interplanetary yarn from which I withdraw my ban. Hyar and thyar through the Eyrie, let me agree with Claire Beck of Lakeport, California, in that Finlay’s La Belle Dame Sans Merci is the best. It seems I can’t acquiesce v/ith some readers on Poe and Hawthorne for reprints. If they had not been exceptionally superb, they would not have lasted through the history of literature. That’s all now, the heat is too enervating for much comment.”

Trudy’s Spellings

Kenneth Moor writes from Lancashire, England: "I was very much amused to receive a pictureless copy of WT in yesterday’s mail, but I hope there are no more, because Finlay’s illustrations are, to me, 50 per cent of the magazine. I must say, however, that I don’t think his new type of drawings are anything like as good as his former ones. (If you would like to print this I w-ould be very interested to see the storm of abuse the last statement will bring down on my defenseless head from other Finlay fans! ) And talking of printing letters: thanks for putting in my last one — I was never so surprized in my life! Congratulations on Pigeons from Hell, the weirdest tale you’ve ever produced to my knowledge. But then I’m bloodthirsty!... Now a few pats on the back. I read the August issue and enjoyed ic except for — but we’ve had enough brickbats. I think The Fire Princess is a winner even if there w r as nothing to show it was a serial until the very last page. Hamilton’s descriptions are marvelous and one can really visualize the set507



tings. That is the highest tribute that can be paid to any writer. (I notice that the British agent seems to be a rather incompetent young lady! No offense, Mr. Hamilton.)

... Yours till Trudy takes her spellings from the Oxford Dictionary!”

Armful of Orchids

Eleanor Braley writes from Kennebunk, Maine: "Here’s a whole armful of orchids for the July and August numbers of Weird Tales. That utterly different story, He that Hath Wings by Edmond Hamilton, was about the most extraordinary tale I think I ever read. Mother of Toads by Clark Ashton Smith almost gave me nightmares. Now every time I look at a poor innocent toad, I wonder suspiciously if it is such a creature as Mere Antoinette turned out to be. If The Fire Princess by Edmond Hamilton goes on at the rate it starts out it will be a ripsnortin’ story. Most serials are so disappointing. The Wolf -Girl of fosselin by Arlton Eadie came in next by a whisker. Her picture on the cover should start a new fashion fad and wouldn’t that be something? The poems are precious in both numbers, but I was so disappointed at the lack of pictures in the August issue that I nearly wept. Since so many orchids are passed about for the authors who have passed on, why doesn’t someone write us what happened to the illustrator who used to decorate WT? I mean the one who made that cute little sketch one always finds at the top of the reprints. Those really were scary.”

A Curse from Peru

Misti Selkirk writes from Lima, Peru: "After these many years of devotion to Weird Tales, at last I find that I must register my first complaint. Has anyonenoticed how trite and tiresome has become that line introducing the letters to the Eyrie, 'Fulano de Tal writes from Somewhere:’? Even our perennially refreshing Miss Hemken is presented as ’G. H. writes from Chicago:’. No doubt I make too much notice of so small a matter, but the net result of reading that same by-line some hundreds of times is the shadow of a dissatisfaction with the Eyrie itself, which the Lord forbid! Once started, the brickbats seem to come readily to hand. My second has to do with certain tales which have appeared in recent issues. The writer has shown that his talent is such

that he need not depend upon imitation to be effective, that tales purely his own should be excellent. I solemnly warn him that I have spent the past week in sifting over the most horrid necromancies of the pre-Inca mythologies searching for a curse of sufficient virulence to suit his crime. I have at last extracted one from the cobwebbed corridors of the nighted necropoli of Nazca which I am sure will be satisfactory. After dusting it off and adjusting its delicate mechanism, I have made a trial of its potency, which trial resulted in a blister on my tongue, an extensive charring of the grass roundabout, and a large crack in the granite boulder on which I was sitting when I repeated the incantation. So I wrapped the curse in paper of purest asbestos ready to mail upon a moment’s notice to anyone who again so dares to stir the bones of the illustrious dead and to trouble once more the mighty shade of great Conan, to drag back a feeble shadow of his greatness from the Valhalla he so nobly earned. Since, without the sugar coating, there is bitterness and resentment in the best-intentioned quinine, let me continue with a few words of appreciation for the many stories in recent numbers that I did like. Your reprint of Saladin’s Throne-Rug was a superb choice and recalls to my mind the wealth of wonderful tales printed in your pages in years gone by. Let us have more of these old masterpieces. Please allow me to congratulate Mr. Bloch on his streamlined re-creation of the horror tales of Poe. Let no one think that I intend thereby disrespect or disparagement of either Mr. Bloch or Mr. Poe. Escape, by Ernst, is a well-tailored little tale, almost inducing belief. Mother of Toads fully meets the standard of excellence which we have come to expect from Mr. Smith. The Black Drama promises to be the best serial in many a moss-draped moon. Let us hope that it continues in the same high plane. The Defense Rests is a very novel and welcome treatment of a theme not new, but always of absorbing interest to those of us who have not yet gone 'over there.’ Just one little corner of a brickbat to David Keller for his entirely unconvincing Dust in the House. Mr. Keller has often shown us in times past that he can do much better. Also, may I ask why Edmond Hamilton has so long hidden his light under the bushel of so many carbon-copy tales when he had the



talent for ones like The Isle of the Sleeper and He that Hath Wings? These last two are probably the best that we have ever had from his pen. Give us more like these, Mr. Hamilton. No appreciation of the tales in the July issue would be complete without a word for Fortune’s Fools, another of those word-faceted jewel carvings of phrases which we owe to the genius of Seabury Quinn, whose Globe of Memories and Roads have shov/n us so clearly that beauty and tenderness also have their place in the. weird tale.”

WT Best

Mrs. C. L. Janney writes from Deepwater, New Jersey: "Just want to write and say that I prefer Weird Tales to any magazine on the market. They are not printed often enough for me, and I agree with Richard Conrad Nicholas from New York in saving — write more stories of the supernatural, ghosts, werewolves and that sort. Keep out robots, planetary and time-travel. The August Weird Tales is the best I’ve read for a long time. I hope they are all as good.”

Against Serials

Richard K. Weldon writes from Kaduna, Nigeria: "I take this opportunity of telling you how much I appreciate Weird Tales. Last year I discovered a copy in a secondhand bookshop in Ireland, and on reading it I immediately instructed my agent to put in a permanent order. I like this kind of fiction and your magazine is the first of its kind I have ever come across. I do not intend to select particular stories for special mention, as the all-round form is exceedingly high, but I do wish you could cut out the serials. In themselves they are usually excellent, but their drawback is that one must wait a month for the next installment. Perhaps some day you will publish twice monthly — one number with the short stories and the other with the rather longer ones. When you do — if ever — you may be sure that I will be one of your first readers to 'double’ his order.”

Two Super-Stories

Donald Y. Allgeier writes from Springfield, Missouri: "In the July issue it seemed to me that there were two 'super-stories’ — Fortune’s Fools and He that Hath Wings. Quinn’s story is just about his best to date. It is far superior to the puerile Roads (do I

hear boos?). It has everything a good weird tale should have — plus that extra, indefinable something. Hamilton’s story recaptures the atmosphere of his Child of the Winds. His latest is a charming story. S aladin’s Throne-Rug would seem better to me if I had not read The Girl from Samarcand. I’m saving both of them, however. Other good stories in July were Return to the Sabbath, The Defense Rests and Spaivn of Dagon — the latter inferior to the first Elak yarn.... I still maintain that you should have a line blank for story preferences, about reprints. Let the readers vote on the stories they want reprinted. Tabulate the votes and reprint the most popular one first, then several of the others in order. The best story in the August number is The Black Drama. Field is. one of your best authors. The W olf - Girl of Josselin is fine, though only original in a few touches. I liked the denouement very much. The Fire Princess is an excellent example of the weird action story. It should grow more entertaining as the yarn unfolds.”'

Lack of Illustrations

T. O. Hoffmaister writes from Saint Louis, Missouri: "I was very much disappointed in the August issue when I noticed the lack of illustrations. Please do not make this a policy in the future, for the illustrations add quite a bit to the magazine, especially those of Virgil Finlay. I would like to see him do some more covers soon. Among recent stories I particularly enjoyed Goetterdacm - merung, He that Hath Wings and From the, Beginning.”

The Perfect Pearls

Robert Black writes from San Antonio,, Texas: "I have been reading your magazine for years — always in deepest appreciation. But this is my first letter. First, let me draw a great tide of maledictions onto my head by criticizing the dead master, Lovecraft, and his story, The Doom that Came to Sarnath. All I can say is he must have been reading some of Lord Dunsany’s books before writing that — it has all the Dunsany touches and quirks — not like Lovecraft, at all. Judge Pursuivant gets better in each story. He’s great in The Black Drama. Elak is one of my favorites- — he and the good Doctor Jules de Grandin. Elak may even approach the level of that king of buccaneers — Conan the Barbarian.... A word of commenda510


tion. For his two perfect pearls, Roads and Goetterdaemmerung, I could forgive Quinn anything. If he can do it some more, here is the man to take the cloak of Howard or Lovecraft. More power to him!”

A Mournful Dirge

Ralph Clarry writes from Toronto, Ontario, Canada: "This is indeed a mournful dirge I write; for Weird Tales has been banned from Canada, is now no more as far as we are concerned. Possibly due a great deal to its striking covers more than anything else, this great and unique magazine has succumbed to the ax of indiscriminate chopping. I would w r rite at great length on this subject, but I feel that it would be of no use to point out various facts to those responsible. The truly imposing array of authors that have graced the pages of Weird Tales since its inception, contemporary and deceased, has been ignored. Names like Sir Arthur Conan Doyle, Edgar Allan Poe, Jules Verne, Algernon Blackwood, Nathaniel Hawthorne, A. Merritt and H. P. Lovecraft, to mention only a few who have had some of their best v/orks printed in WT, have not been considered, and represent, I think, just how far into the magazine’s contents the banners went. No, I think w'e can safely assume that a few kicks probably from some rheumy old chronics have been the main element in the dictum. I was told by a news-dealer here that if just three complaints are registered against a particular periodical throughout the whole of Ontario, then that magazine is banned. Six, no less, have been thus eliminated in the last month. Upon my vcord, it seems not impossible thpat in short order we shall have nothing but the funny papers to read here in Canada — if what constitutes good reading and what doesn’t is left to the judgment of a few persons, that is.... There isn’t very much I can add to this letter. If you print it in tire Eyrie, I will never get to see it, but mayhap someone might who could do something about the deplorable high-handed action that has deprived the many Canadian readers of their irreplaceable weird monthly. I am treating this in a very sober light, admittedly, but it is more than annojdng to have something taken away that you have enjoyed for years. Suffice to say I know now •what a baby feels like when you take candy from it! I have never had any kick to make

about the magazine as it was, probably never would have, but I find it impossible to withhold a kick for the magazine’s being banned. It is rank injustice.”

The Book of Thel

Earl E. Le Clair writes from Buffalo, New York: "I consider Weird Tales the most literary of all the pulp magazines. This statement is well backed by a number of your contributors and the type of work they do. Another good point in the magazine is the frontispiece in which some artist illustrates an excerpt from some classical work. Might I suggest illustrations of perhaps William Collins’ The Passions or some of William Blake’s Prophetic Books, as for instance The Marriage of Heave>j and Hell, or The Book of Thel, from which I quote Thel’s Motto:

’Does the eagle know what is in the Pot, Or wilt thou go ask the mole?

Can wisdom be put in a silver rod,

Or love in a golden bowl?’

Might I also mention the works of Lord Byron, Robert Browning and James Thomson’s City of Dreadful Night, and endless others that, I think, could supply inspiration to this artist.... I like those stories that deal with pure mystics or with metaphysics, or with the strange and forgotten of some land, time, or peoples; although I do not care for that type of story that has to do with mechanical or scientific wonder-stories of the future.”

What! No Pictures?

Francis Hacker writes from Hollywood, California: “I enjoyed the August issue

more than any other one for years back, and I was amused to find the reason made plain to me by your note at the end — apologizing for the lack of pictures. If only the accident which prevented pictures which attempt to depict the undepictable could become a permanent part of your schedule of publication! You will always find voluble readers to praise anything at all — while a much bigger block of potential buyers are put off by these puerile attempts at illustrations which to a devastating degree offset the terrific stimuli to the imagination that I am sure you intend the stories to be. Words, skilfully handled, may suggest a picture as inherently a portrayal, and who may portray a nightmare? It is a negation of terms. Since I am an old,



old reader I have allowed myself the privilege of friendly criticism — but I cannot thank you enough for piloting Weird Tales so successfully — and by and large — avoiding the mediocrity of the run-of-the-mill science-fiction and horror tales.”

No Sequel

Allan Scott writes from New York City: "In the December, 1937, issue of Weird Tales you had an exceptionally interesting story by the name of The Sea-Witch by some author with an unpronounceable name (Nictzin Dyalhis). The story ended: *1 wonder if.. Will you inform me at your earliest possible convenience whether there is to be a sequel?”

What Is So Rare?

Robert Burrell writes from Corona, California: "What’s so rare as a day in June, and along with it a copy of WT as good as the current issue (July), and a cracking good story like Henry Kuttner’s Spawn of Dagon? Others, mayhap, may sigh for the conventional accouterments of a hurricane-like wind blowing with a ferocity sufficient to lift a dog house from its measly foundations, raindrops the size of Homburg grapes, and chain lightning without; a big silent house, a cold, playful draft, and a brace of guttering candles within, to fully enjoy the 'unique magazine’. But give me Weird Tales any time and in any place and I’m gone with the gale until I’ve read it from cover to cover. The Imperial Valley, with the mercury playfully hovering around the 122° mark; a snowbound lookout tower in the Santa Anna Mountains; or my station before the console of the organ in the church in which I serve in the capacity of organist (with WT safely hidden from view in the depths of a ponderous volume of Bach toccatas and fugues and Cesar Franck voluntaries), none of these locales serve to dampen my ardor when a new copy of WT comes into my hands. Might I toss a large, luscious orchid in Seabury Quinn’s direction for his Tortime’s Tools? This sprightly tale, dealing as it did with the adventures of the illustrious great-grandsire of the present-day ubiquitous Jules de Grandin, proved a welcome change over the usually-chronicled doings of the latter intrepid gentleman and his moronic pal, Doctor Trowbridge. Quinn also receives my vote of gratitude for his Roads

mxr ISSUE

Lynne Foster Is Dead

By Seabury Quinn

*

T he strangest adventure that ever befell a mortal man happened to a handsome young American after an ill-starred traffic accident in the streets of Cairo. Almost unbelievably fantastic though the story is, the genius of its author makes it credible and fascinating.

W E will not reveal to you in advance the intriguing nature of Lynne Foster’s adventure, but it is so astounding as to leave the reader quite breathless. Seabury Quinn has written many startling and fascinating stories, but rarely has he equaled this novelette, which will be published complete

in the next, issue of




of several months ago. Robert Bloch, I was happy to see, did his usual good work with Return to the Sabbath. Bloch has been pretty much my favorite author from the time of his WT debut with The Feast in the Abbey. Mr. Bloch is approximately my own age (21), is he not? I was somewhat disappointed with Clark Ashton Smith with his Mother of T oads, when he usually writes so charmingly of the people and forest of Averoigne. However, for sheer charm, I doubt whether even this gifted writer can ever surpass his own The Holiness of Azedarac of several years ago. The varied comments from interested readers in the Eyrie included the best single collection of letters in several issues. Gertrude Hemken is priceless. I have often wished that she would turn her hand to writing a tale for publication. It would probably be quite worth while. Incidentally, what has happened to 'good old Jack Darrow’? His somewhat lengthy absence from the column has been a bit disturbing.”

Woe! Woe! Woe!

John V. Baltadonis writes from Philadelphia: "Woe is me! No Finlay illustrations! That, by the way, lowers my opinion of the August issue a whoie lot. The cover, of course, was very good — though definitely not in the story. It misleads one very much

as to the theme of the yarn. I can readily imagine the scene Finlay would pick for the illustrating of The Fire Princess. That it would be beautiful is undoubted. The story, itself, is very good, and I can hardly wait till its final parts come around. The Black Drama was a gripping story all the way through — e’en though I did know how it was going to end. The Tree was both unique and beautiful. Best in the issue was Hamilton’s serial yam.”

Concise Comments

Richard Kraft writes from Allenhurst, New Jersey: "Arlton Eadie’s last tale was truly a fine one. The Wolf Girl of Josselin was excellently written, had a new twist to rather a stale plot, and left one a feeling of having read a real weird tale.”

Earl Leaston Bell writes from Augusta, Georgia: "Give us plenty more of Gans T. Field, but in memory of H. P. L. and R. H. please lay off such poorly written stuff as Green Horror in the August issue.”

Most Popular Story

Readers, what is your favorite story in this issue? Easily the most popular story in our August issue, as shown by your votes and letters, was the closing installment of The Black Drama, Gans T. Field’s strange serial tale about Lord Byron.

MY FAVORITE STORIES IN THE SEPTEMBER WEIRD TALES ARE:

Story Remarks

( 1 )

*

( 2 )

( 3 )

( 1 )

I do not like the following stories: Why?

( 2 ) _

i

Reader’s name and address:

Address coupon to the Eyrie, WEIRD | TALES, 840 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago, |

W. T.— 8


THE great chapel, circular in shape, had walls that rose curving, darkly luminous, satin-smooth as the petals of a vast black tulip, to meet a vaulted roof— their polished surface broken by squat archways behind which darkness lay like a crouching beast of prey.

Above the huge slab of the altar-stone was a reredos of red alabaster, a screen some thirty feet by ten. It was powerfully illumined from behind, so that its carving.stood out in bold relief and a trick in the lighting gave a sinister effect of constant.movement.

This screen was a vivid presentment of a human sacrifice. Bound on the. stone altar, a woman appeared to writhe and quiver. Her long bright hair rippled down to a deep trough about the altar-base. About the altar stood tall candles whose flames danced in frenzy. And behind the candles 5 flare and flicker, at each of the four corners of the altar, a veiled figure towered. Menacing, gigantic, these figures were the only immovable objects on the screen, and they achieved by their fateful stillness— in contrast with the surge and movement of all else in the picture— an effect of final inescapable doom. Dark crescent moons poised above each veiled head of these four attendant genii, bearing Hebrew characters which read— EARTH. WINTER. NIGHT. DEATH.

And now Sant saw the black-clad figure— the body of Stephen Lynn, torn and wrenched, trembling from head to foot in diabolic ecstasy, arms flung wide, head bent backward so that light from the suspended globe beat full and fiercely down upon the upturned face. Louder— louder rang the great triumphant organ voice, pealing out into the unclean silence of the chapel s gloom, beating against the curved and shining walls which sent back clashing pasans of tremendous harmony* * * * You cannot afford to miss this strange and powerful tale of possession and dual personality, by the author of Thing of Darkness. This fascinating novelette will be published complete in the next issue of Weird Tales:


By G. G. Pendarves

-AlsoTHE THING IN THE TRUNK

By Paul Ernst

A fascinating story about a heinous crime and its strange aftermath— by the author of "The Witch’s Curse” and other weird thrill-tales.


By H. P. Lovecraft

It lay silent and dead under the cold desert moon* light, but what strange race inhabited the abyss under those cyclopean mins?

v THE HOUND OF PEDRO

By Robert Bloch

A tale of old Mexico under the Spaniards, of an evil black Moor from Granada, of a dire oppression of the Indians, and a ghastly game of ten-pins played on the desert sands.


By Seabury Quinn

The strangest adventure that ever befell a mortal man happened to the handsome young American after that ill-starred traffic accident in the streets of Cairo.

FOTHERGILL’S JUG

By Thorp McClusky

A fascinating story is this, about a strange jug dug up out of the sands of Mesopotamia, and the weird entity that dwelt with the jug.

arasssraapsgaMfiaBjMflfl^^

it

THIS WISDOM MUST DIE/”

•*

Ttathi 'That fjave Seen

tPenied JTttu^^lina 4juL/nanittj

FOR every word that has left the lips of bishops or statesmen to enlighten man, a thousand have been withheld. For every book publicly exposed to the inquiring mind, one hundred more have been suppressed — to oblivion. Each year of progress has been wilfully delayed centuries. Wisdom has had to filter through biased, secret sessions or ecclesiastical council meetings, where high dignitaries of state and church alone proclaimed what man should know.

Are you prepared to demand the hidden facts of life? Will you continue to believe that you are not capable of weighing the worth of knowledge that concerns your personal freedom and happiness? Realize that much that can make your life more understandable and livable has been left unexplained or intentionally destroyed. At first by word of mouth only, and now by private discourses, are revealed those truths which secret brotherhoods preserved in ancient temples and hidden sanctuaries, from those who sought to selfishly deprive humanity of them.

THIS free BOOK OF EXPLANATION

Let the Rosicrucians, one of these ancient brotherhoods of learning, tell you about these amazing truths, and explain how you, too, like thousands of others, may now use them to enjoy the fullness of life. The Rosicrucians, (not a religious organization) invite you to use the coupon opposite and receive the FREE copy of the fascinating, Sealed Book, with its startling tale of self help.

I

| Scribe R. W. W.

1 THE ROSICRUCIANS (AMORC)

> Rosicrucian Park, San Jose* California, U.S.A.

Please send me your FREE Sealed Book. I | am sincerely interested in learning how I may j receive these long-concealed facts of life.

Woe ROSICRUCIANS (AMORC)

I

I

f

i

I

Name

SAN JOSE, CALIFORNIA, U. S. A.

mamBsmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmm

« Address.

U

n

E

V

E

r

E

B


Cl

L'l

ft


ft

e;

u

Ei

C!

tl

f.

(!

(i

ft

tl

B

V.

I

l\

E!

!!

&’

I

m

[THE END]
