============================================================
Weird Tales
Volume 23, Number 2
Date: February 1934
============================================================
============================================================
TABLE OF CONTENTS

  1. "The Valley of the Worm Robert E" by Howard
  2. "To a Bullet-Pierced Skull Alfred I" by Tooke
  3. "The Solitary Hunters (part 2) David H" by Keller
============================================================
============================================================
THE VALLEY OF THE WORM ROBERT E
by Howard
============================================================
all’s well ’’

He crumpled to the floor unconscious.

W. T.— S

of the Worm

By ROBERT E. HOWARD

Tr

Y\ A

'He fell through the air monster’s back.”

A stirring tale of a hideous monster from the elder world, that came in conflict with the yellow-haired sons of Aryan

I WILL tell you of Niord and the Worm. You have heard the tale before in many guises wherein the hero was named Tyr, or Perseus, or Siegfried, or Beowulf, or Saint George. But it was Niord who met the loathly demoniac thing that crawled hideously up from W. T.— 4

hell, and from which nieeting sprang the cycle of hero-tales that revolves down the ages until the very substance of the truth is lost and passes into the limbo of all forgotten legends. I know whereof I speak, for I was Niord.

As I lie here awaiting death, whidi




creeps slowly upon me like a blind slug, my dreams are filled with glittering visions and the pageantry of glory. It is not of the drab, disease-racked life of James Allison I dream, but all the gleaming figures of the mighty pageantry that have passed before, and shall come after; for I have faintly glimpsed, not merely the shapes that trail out behind, but shapes that come after, as a man in a long parade glimpses, far ahead, the line of figures that precede him winding over a distant hill, etched shadow-like against the sky. I am one and all the pageantry of shapes and guises and masks which have been, are, and shall be the visible manifestations of that illusive, intangible, but vitally existent spirit now promenading under the brief and temporary name of James Allison.

Each man on earth, each woman, is part and all of a similar caravan of shapes and beings. But they can not remember — their minds can not bridge the brief, awful gulfs of blackness which lie between those unstable shapes, and which the spirit, soul or ego, in spanning, shakes off its fleshy masks- I remember. Why I can remember is the strangest tale of all; but as I lie here with death’s black wings slowly unfolding over me, ail the dim folds of my previous lives are shaken out before my eyes, and I see myself in many forms and guises — braggart, swaggering, fearful, loving, foolish, all that men have been or will be.

I have been Man in many lands and many conditions; yet — and here is another strange thing — my line of reincarnation runs straight down one unerring channel. I have never been any but a man of that restless race men once called Nordheimr and later Aryans, and today name by many names and designations. Their history is my history, from the first mewling wail of a hairless white ape cub in the

wastes of the arctic, to the death-cry of the last degenerate product of ultimate civilization, in some dim and unguessed future age.

My name has been Hialmar, Tyr, Bragi, Bran, Horsa, Eric, and John. I strode red-handed through the deserted streets of Rome behind the yellow-maned Brennus; I wandered through the violated plantations with Alaric and his Goths when the flame of burning villas lit the land like day and an empire was gasping its last under our sandalled feet; I waded sword in hand through the foaming surf from Hengist’s galley to lay the foundations cf England in blood and pillage; when Leif the Lucky sighted the broad white beaches of an unguessed world, I stood beside him in the bows of the dragon-ship, my golden beard blowing in the wind; and when Godfrey of Bouillon led his Crusaders over the walls of Jerusalem, I was among them in steel cap and brigandine.

But it is of none of these things I would speak. I would take you back with me into an age beside which that of Brennus and Rome is as yesterday. I would take you back through, not merely centuries and millenniums, but epochs and dim ages un guessed by the wildest philosopher. Oh far, far and far will you fare into the nighted Past before you win beyond the boundaries of my race, blueeyed, yellow-haired, wanderers, slayers, lovers, mighty in rapine and wayfaring.

It is the adventure of Niord Worm’sbane of which I would speak — -the rootstem of a whole cycle of hero-tales which has not yet reached its end, the grisly underlying reality that lurks behind timedistorted myths of dragons, fiends and monsters.

Yet it is not alone with the mouth of Niord that I will speak. I am James Allison no less tlian I was Niord, and as 1

THE VALLEY OF THE WORM


unfold the tale, I will interpret some of his thoughts and dreams and deeds from the mouth of the modern I, so that the saga of Niord shall not be a meaningless chaos to you. His blood is your blood, who are sons of Aryan; but wide misty gulfs of eons lie horrifically between, and the deeds and dreams of Niord seem as alien to your deeds and dreams as the primordial and lion-haunted forest seems alien to the white- walled city street.

I T WAS a strange world in which Niord lived and loved and fought, so long ago that even my eon-spanning memory can not recognize landmarks. Since then the surface of the earth has clianged, not once but a score of times; continents have risen and sunk, seas have changed their beds and rivers their courses, glaciers have waxed and waned, and the very stars and constellations have altered and shifted.

It was so long ago that tlie cradle-land of my race was still in Nordheim. But the epic drifts of my people had already begun, and blue-eyed, yellow-maned tribes flowed eastward and southward and westward, on century-long treks that carried them around the world and left their bones and their traces in strange lands and wild waste places. On one of these drifts I grew from infancy to manhood. My knowledge of that northern homeland was dim memories, like half -remembered dreams, of blinding white snow plains and ice fields, of great fires roaring in the circle of hide tents, of yellow manes flying in great winds, and a sun setting in a lurid wallow of crimson clouds, blazing on trampled snow where still dark forms lay in pools that were redder than the sunset.

That last memory stands out clearer than the others. It was the field of Jotunheim, I was told in later years, whereon

had just been fought that terrible battle which was the Armageddon of the zEsirfolk, the subject of a cycle of hero-songs for long ages, and which still lives today in dim dreams of Ragnarok and Goetterdaemmerung. I looked on that battle as a mewling infant; so I must have lived about — but I will not name the age, for I would be called a madman, and historians and geologists alike would rise to refute me.

But my memories of Nordheim were few and dim, paled by memories of that long, long trek upon which I had spent my life. We had not kept to a straight course, but our trend had been for ever southward. Sometimes we had bided for a while in fertile upland valleys or rich river-traversed plains, but always we took up the trail again, and not always because of drouth or famine. Often we left countries teeming with game and wild grain to push into wastelands. On our trail we moved endlessly, driven only by our restless whim, yet blindly following a cosmic law, the workings of which we never guessed, any more than the wild geese guess in their flights around the world. So at last we came into the Country of the Worm.

I will take up the tale at the time when we came into jungle-clad hills reeking with rot and teeming with spawning life, where the tom-toms of a savage people pulsed incessantly through the hot breathless night. These people came forth to dispute our way — short, strongly built men, black-haired, painted, ferocious, but indisputably white men. We knew their breed of old. They were Piets, and of all alien races the fiercest. We had met their kind before in thick forests, and in upland valleys beside mountain lakes. But many moons had passed since those meetings.

I believe this particular tribe repre196

WBIRD TALES

seated the easternmost drift of the race. They were the most primitive and ferocious of any I ever met. Already they were exhibiting hints of characteristics I have noted among black savages in jungle countries, though they had dwelt in these environs only a few generations. The abysmal jungle was engulfing them, was obliterating their pristine characteristics and shaping them iff its own horrific mold. They were drifting into head-himting, and cannibalism was but a step which I believe they must have taken before they became extinct. These things are natural adjuncts to the jungle; the Piets did not learn them from the black people, for then there were no blacks among those hills. In later years they came up from the south, and the Piets first enslaved and then were absorbed by them. But witli that my saga of Niord is not concerned.

We came into that brutish hill country, with its squalling abysms of savagery and black primitiveness. We were a whole tribe marching on foot, old men, wolfish with their long beards and gaunt limbs, giant warriors in their prime, naked children running along the line of march, women with tousled yellow locks carrying babies which never cried — unless it were to scream from pure rage. I do not remember our numbers, except that there were some five hundred fighting-men — ■ and by fighting-men I mean all males, from the child just strong enough to lift a bow, to the oldest of the old men. In that madly ferocious age all were fighters. Our women fought, when brought to bay, like tigresses, and I have seen a babe, not yet old enough to stammer articulate words, twist its head and sink its tiny teeth in the foot that stamped out its life.

Oh, we were fighters! Let me speak of Niord. I am proud of him, the more when I consider the paltry crippled body of James Allison, the unstable mask I

now wear. Niord was tall, with great shoulders, lean hips and mighty limbs. His muscles were long and swelling, denoting endurance and speed as well as strength. He could run all day without tiring, and he possessed a co-ordination that made his movements a blur of blinding speed. If I told you his full strength, you would brand me a liar. But there is no man on earth today strong enough to bend the bow Niord handled with ease. The longest arrow-flight on record is that of a Turkish archer who sent a shaft 482 yards. There was not a stripling in my tribe who could not have bettered that flight.

A s WE entered the jungle country we ^ heard the tom-toms booming across the mysterious valleys that slumbered between the brutish hills, and in a broad, open plateau we met our enemies. I do not believe these Piets knew us, even by legends, or thq?^ had never rushed so openly to the onset, though they outnumbered us. But there was no attempt at ambush. They swarmed out of the trees, dancing and singing their war-songs, yelling their barbarous threats. Our heads should hang in their idol-hut and our yellow-haired women should bear their sons. Ho! ho! ho! By Ymir, it was Niord who laughed then, not James Allison. Just so we of the .^sir laughed to hear their threats — deep thunderous laughter from broad and mighty chests. Our trail was laid in blood and embers through many lands. We were the slayers and ravishers, striding sword in hand across the world, and that these folk threatened us woke our rugged humor.

We went to meet them, naked but for our wolfhides, swinging our bronze swords, and our singing was like rolling thunder in the hills. They sent their arrows among us, and we gave back their

THE VAIXEY OF THE WORM


fire. They could not match us in archery. Our arrows hissed in blinding clouds among them, dropping them like autumn leaves, until they howled and frothed like mad dogs and charged to hand-grips. And we, mad with the fighting joy, dropped our bows and ran to meet them, as a lover runs to his love.

By Ymir, it was a battle to madden and make drunken with the slaughter and the fury. The Piets were as ferocious as we, but ours was the superior physique, the keener wit, the more highly developed fighting-brain. We won because we were a superior race, but it was no easy victory. Oarpses littered the blood-soaked earth; but at last they broke, and we cut them down as tliey ran, to the very edge of the trees. I tell of that fight in a few bald words. I can not paint the madness, the reek of sweat and blood, the panting, muscle-straining effort, the splintering of bones under mighty blows, the rending and hewing of quivering sentient flesh; above all the merciless abysmal savagery of the whole affair, in which there was neither rule nor order, each man fighting as he would or could. If I might do so, you would recoil in horror; even the modern I, cognizant of my close kinship with those times, stand aghast as I review that butchery. Mercy was yet unborn, save as some individual’s whim, and rules of warfare were as yet undreamed of. It was an age in which each tribe and each human fought tooth and fang from birth to death, and neither gave nor expected mercy.

So we cut down the fleeing Piets, and our women came out on the field to brain the wounded enemies with stones, or cut their throats with copper knives. We did not torture. We were no more cruel than life demanded. The rule of life was ruthlessness, but there is more wanton cruelty today than ever we dreamed of. It

was not wanton bloodthirstiness that made us butcher wounded and captive foes. It was because we knew our chances of survival increased with each enemy slain.

Yet there was occasionally a touch of individual mercy, and so it was in this fight. I had been occupied with a duel with an especially valiant enemy. His tousled thatch of black hair scarcely came above my chin, but he was a solid knot of steel-spring muscles, than which lightning scarcely moved faster. He had aa iron sword and a hide-covered buckler. I had a knotty-headed bludgeon. That fight was one that glutted even my battlelusting soul. I was bleeding from a score of flesh wounds before one of my terriblci lashing strokes smashed his shield like cardboard, and an instant later my bludgeon glanced from his unprotected head Ymir! Even now I stop to laugh and marvel at the hardness of that Piet’s skull Men of that age were assuredly built c» a rugged plan! That blow should have spattered his brains like water. It did lay his scalp open horribly, dashing him senseless to the earth, where I let him li^ supposing him to be dead, as I joined in the slaughter of the fleeing warriors.

When I returned reeking with sweat and blood, my club horridly clotted with blood and brains, I noticed that my antagonist was regaining consciousness, and that a naked tousle-headed girl was preparing to give him the finishing touch with a stone she could scarcely lift. A vagrant whim caused me to check the blow. I had enjoyed the fight, and I admired the adamantine quality of his skull.

W E MADE camp a short distance away, burned our dead on a great pyre, and after looting the corpses of the enemy, we dragged them across the plateau and cast them down in a valley to



make a feast for the hyenas, jackals and vultures which were already gathering. We kept close watch that night, but we were not attacked, though far away through the jungle we could make out the red gleam of fires, and could faintly hear, when the wind veered, the throb of tom-toms and demoniac screams and yells — ^keenings for the slain or mere animal squallings of fury.

Nor did they attack us in the days that followed. We bandaged our captive's wounds and quickly learned his primitive tongue, which, however, was so different from ours that I can not conceive of the two languages having ever had a common source.

His name was Grom, and he was a great hunter and fighter, he boasted. He talked freely and held no grudge, grinning broadly and showing tusk-like teeth, ^ his beady eyes glittering from under the tangled black mane that fell over his low forehead. His limbs were almost ape-like in their thickness.

He was vastly interested in his captors, though he could never understand why he had been spared; to the end it remained an inexplicable mystery to him. The Piets obeyed the law of survival even more rigidly than did the .(Esir. They were the more practical, as shown by their more settled habits. They never roamed as far or as blindly as we. Yet in every line we were the superior race.

Grom, impressed by our intelligence and fighting qualities, volunteered to go into the hills and make peace for us with his people. It was immaterial to us, but we let him go. Slavery had not yet been dreamed of.

So Grom went back to his people, and we forgot about him, except that I went a trifle more cautiously about my hunting, expecting him to be lying in wait to put an arrow through my back. Then one day

we heard a rattle of tom-toms, and Grom appeared at the edge of the jungle, his face split in his gorilla-grin, with the painted, skin-clad, feather-bedecked chiefs of the clans. Our ferocity had awed them, and our sparing of Grom further impressed them. They could not understand leniency; evidently we valued them too cheaply to bother about killing one when he was in our power.

So peace was made with much powwow, and sworn to with many strange oaths and rituals — we swore only by Ymir, and an .^sir never broke that vow. But they swore by the elements, by tlie idol which sat in the fetish-hut where fires burned for ever and a withered crone slapped a leather-covered drum all night long, and by another being too terrible to be named.

Then we all sat around the fires and gnawed meat-bones, and drank a fiery concoction they brewed from wild grain, and the wonder is that the feast did not end in a general massacre; for that liquor had devils in it and made maggots writhe in our brains. But no harm came of our vast drunkenness, and thereafter we dwelt at peace with our barbarous neighbors. They taught us many things, and learned many more from us. But they taught us iron-workings, into which they had been forced by the lack of copper in those hills, and we quickly excelled them.

We went freely among their villages — mud-walled clusters of huts in hilltop clearings, overshadowed by giant trees — and we allowed them to come at will among our camps — straggling lines of hide tents on the plateau where the battle had been fought. Our yovmg men cared not for their squat beady-eyed women, and our rangy clean-limbed girls with their tousled yellow heads were not drawn to the hairy-breasted savages. Familiarity over a period of years would

THE VALLEY OF THE WORM


have reduced the repulsion on either side, until the two races would have flowed together to form one hybrid people, but long before that time the ^sir rose and departed, vanishing into the mysterious hazes of the haunted south. But before that exodus there came to pass the horror of the Worm.

1 HUNTED with Grom and he led me into brooding, uninhabited valleys and up into silence-haunted hills where no men had set foot before us. But there was one valley, off in the mazes of the southwest, into which he would not go. Stumps of shattered columns, relics of a forgotten civilization, stood among the trees on the valley floor. Grom showed them to me, as we stood on the cliffs that flanked the mysterious vale, but he would not go down into it, and he dissuaded me when I would have gone alone. He would not speak plainly of the danger that lurked there, but it was greater than that of serpent or tiger, or the trumpeting elephants which occasionally wandered up in devastating droves from the south.

Of all beasts, Grom told me in the gutturals of his tongue, the Piets feared only Satha, the great snake, and they shunned the jungle where he lived. But there was another thing they feared, and it was connected in some manner with the Valley of Broken Stones, as the Piets called the crumbling pillars. Long ago, when his ancestors had first come into the country, they had dared that grim vale, and a whole clan of them had perished, suddenly, horribly, and unexplainably. At least GrOm did not explain. The horror had come up out of the earth, somehow, and it was not good to talk of it, since it was believed that It might be summoned by speaking of It — whatever It was.

But Grom was ready to hunt with me anywhere else; for he was the greatest

hunter among the Piets, and many and fearful were oiar adventures. Once I killed, with the iron sword I had forged with my own hands, that most terrible of all beasts — old saber-tooth, which men today call a tiger because he was more like a tiger tlran anything else. In reality he was almost as much like a bear in build, save for his unmistakably feline head. Saber-tooth was massive-limbed, with a low-hung, great, heavy body, and he vanished from the earth because he was too terrible a fighter, even for that grim age. As his muscles and ferocity grew, his brain dwindled until at last even the instinct of self-preservation vanished. Nature, who maintains her balance in such things, destroyed him because, had his super-fighting powers been allied with an intelligent brain, he would have destroyed all other forms of life on earth. He was a freak on the road of evolution — organic development gone mad and run to fangs and talons, to slaughter and destruction.

I killed saber-tooth in a battle that would make a saga in itself, and for months afterward I lay semi-delirious with ghastly wounds that made the toughest warriors shake their heads. The Piets said that never before had a man killed a saber-tooth single-handed. Yet I recovered, to the wonder of all.

While I lay at the doors of death there was a secession from the tribe. It was a peaceful secession, such as continually occurred and contributed greatly to the peopling of the world by yellow-haired tribes. Forty-five of the young men took themselves mates simultaneously and wandered off to found a clan of their own. There was no revolt; it was a racial custom which bore fruit in all the later ages, when tribes sprung from the same roots met, after centuries of separation, and cut one another’s throats with joyous abandon. The tendency of the Aryan and



the pre-Aryan was always toward disunity, clans splitting off the main stem, and scattering.

So these young men, led by one Bragi, my brother-in-arms, took their girls and venturing to the southwest, took up their abode in the Valley of Broken Stones. The Piets expostulated, hinting vaguely of a monstrous doom that haunted the vale, but the .(Esir laughed. We had left our own demons and weirds in the icy v/astes of the far blue north, and the devils of other races did not much impress us.

When my full strength was returned, and the grisly wounds were only scars, I girt on my weapons and strode over the plateau to visit Bragi’s clan. Grom did not accompany me. He had not been in the .Esir camp for several days. But I knew the way. I remembered well the valley, from the cliffs of which I had looked down and seen the lake at the upper end, the trees thickening into forest at the lower extremity. The sides of the valley were high sheer cliffs, and a steep broad ridge at either end cut it off from the surrounding country. It was toward the lower or southwestern end that the valley-floor was dotted thickly with ruined columns, some towering high among the trees, some fallen into heaps of lichenclad stones. What race reared them none knew. But Grom had hinted fearsomely of a hairy, apish monstrosity dancing loathsomely under the moon to a demoniac piping that induced horror and madness.

1 CROSSED the plateau whereon our camp was pitched, descended the slope, traversed a shallow vegetationdioked valley, climbed another slope, and plunged into the hills, A half-day’s leisurely travel brought me to the ridge on the other side of which lay the valley of

the pillars. For many miles I had seen no sign of human life. The settlements of the Piets all lay many miles to the east. I topped the ridge and looked down into the dreaming valley with its still blue lake, its brooding cliffs and its broken columns jutting among the trees. I looked for smoke. I saw none, but I saw vultures wheeling in the sky over a cluster of tents on the lake shore.

I came down the ridge warily and approached the silent camp. In it I halted, frozen with horror. I was not easily moved. I had seen death in many forms, and had fled from or taken part in red massacres that spilled blood like water and heaped the earth with corpses. But here I was confronted with an organic devastation that staggered and appalled me. Of Bragi’s embryonic clan, not one remained alive, and not one corpse was whole. Some of the hide tents still stood erect. Others were mashed down and flattened out, as if crushed by some monstrous weight, so that at first I wondered if a drove of elephants had stampeded across the camp. But no elephants ever wrought such destruction as I saw strewn on the bloody ground. The camp was a shambles, littered with bits of flesh and fragments of bodies — hands, feet, heads, pieces of human debris. Weapons lay about, some of them stained with a greenish slime like that which spurts from a crushed caterpillar.

No human foe could have committed this ghastly atrocity. I looked at the lake, wondering if nameless amphibian monsters had crawled from the calm waters whose deep blue told of imfathomed depths. Then I saw a print left by the destroyer. It was a track such as a titanic worm might leave, yards broad, winding back down the valley. The grass lay flat where it ran, and bushes and small trees had been crushed down into the earth, all

THE VALLEY OF THE WORM


horribly smeared with blood and greenish slime.

With berserk fury in my soul I drew my sword and started to follow it, when a call attracted me. I wheeled, to see a stocky form approaching me from the ridge. It was Grom the Piet, and when I think of the courage it must have taken for him to have overcome ail the instincts planted in him by traditional teachings and personal experience, I realize the full depths of his friendship for me.

Squatting on the lake shore, spear in his hands, his black eyes ever roving fearfully down the brooding tree-waving reaches of the valley, Grom told me of the horror that had come upon Bragi’s clan under the moon. But first he told me of it, as his sires had told the tale to him.

Long ago the Piets had drifted down from the northwest on a long, long trek, finally reaching these jungle-covered hills, where, because they were weary, and because the game and fruit were plentiful and there were no hostile tribes, they halted and built their mud-walled villages.

Some of them, a whole clan of that numerous tribe, took up their abode in the Valley of the Broken Stones. They found the columns and a great ruined temple back in the trees, and in that temple there was no shrine or altar, but the mouth of a shaft that vanished deep into the black earth, and in which there were no steps such as a human being would make and use. They built their village in the valley, and in the night, under the moon, horror came upon them and left only broken walls and bits of slimesmeared flesh.

In those days the Piets feared nothing. The warriors of the other clans gathered and sang their war-songs and danced their war-dances, and followed a broad

track of blood and slime to the shaftmouth in the temple. They howled defiance and hurled down boulders which were never heard to strike bottom. Then began a thin demoniac piping, and up from the well pranced a hideous anthropomorphic figure dancing to the weird strains of a pipe it held in its monstrous hands. The horror of its aspect froze the fierce Piets with amazement, and close behind it a vast white bulk heaved up from the subterranean darkness. Out of the shaft came a slavering mad nightmare which arrows pierced but could not check, which swords carved but could not slay. It fell slobbering upon the warriors, crushing them to crimson pulp, tearing them to bits as an octopus might tear small fishes, sucking their blood from their mangled limbs and devouring them even as they screamed and struggled. The survivors fled, pursued to the very ridge, up which, apparently, the monster could not propel its quaking mountainous bulk.

After that they did not dare the silent valley. But the dead came to their shamans and old men in dreams and told them strange and terrible secrets. They spoke of an ancient, ancient race of semihuman beings which once inhabited that valley and reared those columns for their own weird inexplicable purposes. The white monster in the pits was their god, summoned up from the nighted abysses of mid-earth uncounted fathoms below the black mold, by sorcery unknown to the sons of men. The hairy anthropomorphic being was its servant, created to serve the god, a formless elemental spirit drawn up from below and cased in flesh, organic but beyond the understanding of humanity. The Old Ones had long vanished into the limbo from whence they crawled in the black dawn of the universe, but their bestial god and his inhuman slave lived on. Yet both were or202


garn'c after a fashion, and could be wounded, though no human weapon had been found potent enough to slay them.

Bragi and his dan had dwelt for weeks in the valley before the horror struck. Only the night before, Grom, himting above the cliffs, and by that token daring greatly, had been paralyzed by a highpitched demon piping, and then by a mad damor of human screaming. Stretched face down in the dirt, hiding his head in a tangle of grass, he had not dared to move, even when the shrieks died away in the slobbering, repulsive sounds of a hideous feast. When dawn broke he had crept shuddering to the cliffs to look down into the valley, and the sight of the devastation, even when seen from afar, had driven him in yammering flight far into the hills. But it had occurred to him, finally, that he should warn the rest of the tribe, and returning, on his way to the camp on the plateau, he had seen me entering the valley.

S o SPOKE Grom, while I sat and brooded darkly, my chin on my mighty fist. I can not frame in modern words the clanfeeling that in those -days was a living vital part of every man and woman. In aworld where talon and fang were lifted on every hand, and the hands of all men raised against an individual, except those of his own clan, tribal instinct was more than the phrase it is today. It was as much a part of a man as was his heart or his right hand. This was necessary, for only thus banded together in unbreakable groups could mankind have survived in the terrible environments of the primitive world. So now the personal grief I felt for Bragi and the clean-limbed young men and laughing white-skinned girls was drowned in a deeper sea of grief and fury that was cosmic in its depth and intensity. I sat grimly, while the Piet

squatted anxiously beside me, his gaze roving from me to the menacing deeps of the valley where the accursed columns loomed like broken teeth of cackling hags among the waving leafy reaches.

I, Niord, was not one to use my brain over-much. I lived in a physical world, and there were the old men of the tribe to do my thinking. But I was one of a race destined to become dominant mentally as well as physically, and I was no mere muscular animal. So as I sat there there came dimly and then clearly a thought to me that brought a short fierce laugh from my lips.

Rising, I bade Grom aid me, and we built a pyre on the lake shore of dried wood, the ridge-poles of the tents, and the broken shafts of spears. Then we collected the grisly fragments that had been parts of Bragi’ s band, and we laid them on the pile, and struck flint and steel to it.

The thick sad smoke crawled serpentlike into the sky, and turning to Grom, I made him guide me to the jungle where lurked that scaly horror, Satha, the great serpent. Grom gaped at me; not the greatest hunters among the Piets sought out the mighty crawling one. But my will was like a wind that swept him along my course, and at last he led the way. We left the valley by the upper end, crossing the ridge, skirting the tall cliffs, and plunged into the fastnesses of the south, which was peopled only by the grim denizens of the jungle. Deep into the jungle we went, until we came to a lowlying expanse, dank and dark beneath the great creeper-festooned trees, where our feet sank deep into the spongy silt, carpeted by rotting vegetation, and slimy moisture oozed up beneath their pressure. This, Grom told me, was the realm haunted by Satha, the great serpent.

Let me speak of Satha. There is nothTHE VALLEY OF THE WORM


ing like him on earth today, nor has there been for countless ages. Like the meateating dinosaur, like old saber-tooth, he ' was too terrible to exist. Even then he was a survival of a grimmer age when life and its forms were cruder and more hideous. There were not many of his kind then, though they may have existed in great numbers in the reeking ooze of the vast jungle- tangled swamps still farther south. He was larger than any python of modern ages, and his fangs dripped with poison a thousand times more deadly than that of a king cobra.

He was never worshipped by the pureblood Piets, though the blacks that came later deified him, an.d that adoration persisted in the hybrid race that sprang from the negroes and their white conquerors. But to other peoples he was the nadir of evil horror, and tales of him became twisted into demonology; so in later ages Satha became the veritable devil of the white races, and the Stygians first worshipped, and then, when they became Egyptians, abhorred him under the name of Set, the Old Serpent, while to the Semites he became Leviathan and Satan. He was terrible enough to be a god, for he was a crawling death. I had seen a bull elephant fall dead in his tracks from Satha’s bite. I had seen him, had glimpsed him writhing his horrific way through the dense jungle, had seen him take his prey, but I had never hunted him. He was too grim, even for the slayer of old saber-tooth.

But now I hunted him, plunging farther and farther into the hot, breathless reek of his jungle, even when friendship for me could not drive Grom farther. He urged me to paint my body and sing my death-song before I advanced farther, but I pushed on unheeding.

In a natural runway that wound between the shouldering trees, I set a trap.

I found a large tree, soft and spongy of fiber, but thick-boled and heavy, and I hacked through its base close to the ground with my great sword, directing its fall so that when it toppled, its top crashed into the branches of a smaller tree, leaving it leaning across the runway, one end resting on the earth, the other caught in the small tree. Then I cut away the branches on the under side, and cutting a slim tough sapling I trimmed it and stuck it upright like a prop-pole under the leaning tree. Then, cutting away the tree which supported it, I left the great trunk poised precariously on the prop-pole, to which I fastened a long vine, as thick as my wrist.

Then I went alone through that primordial twilight jungle until an overpowering fetid odor assailed my nostrils, and from the rank vegetation in front of me, Satha reared up his hideous head, swaying lethally from side to side, while his forked tongue jetted in and out, and his great yellow terrible eyes burned icily on me with all the evil wisdom of the black elder world that was when man was not. I backed away, feeling no fear, only an icy sensation along my spine, and Satha came sinuously after me, his shining eighty-foot barrel rippling over the rotting vegetation in mesmeric silence. His wedge-shaped head was bigger than, the head of the hugest stallion, his trunk was thicker than a man’s body, and his scales shimmered with a thousand daan^- ing scintillations. I vvas to Satha as a mouse is to a king cobra, but I was fangc J as no mouse ever was. Quick as I was, I knew I could not avoid the lightning stroke of that great triangular head; so 1 dared not let him come too close. Subtly I fled down the runway, and behind me the rush of the great supple body was like the sweep of wind through the grass.

He was not far behind me when I



raced beneath the dead-fall, and as the great shining length glided under the trap, I gripped the vine with both hands and jerked desperately. With a crash the great trunk fell across Satha’s scaly back, some six feet back of his wedge-shaped head.

I had hoped to break his spine but I do not think it did, for the great body coiled and knotted, the mighty tail lashed and thrashed, mowing down the bushes as if with a giant flail. At the instant of the fall, the huge head had whipped about and struck the tree with a terrific impact, the mighty fangs shearing through bark and wood like simitars. Now, as if aware he fought an inanimate foe, Satha turned on me, standing out of his reach. The scaly neck writhed and arclied, the mighty jaws gaped, disclosing fangs a foot in length, from which dripped venom that might have burned through solid stone.

I believe, what of his stupendous strength, that Satha would have writhed from under the trunk, but for a broken branch that had been driven deep into his side, holding him like a barb. The sound of his hissing filled the jungle and his eyes glared at me with such concentrated evil that I shook despite myself. Oh, he knew it was I who had trapped him! Now I came as close as I dared, and with a sudden powerful cast of my spear, transfixed his neck just below the gaping jaws, nailing him to the tree-trunk. Then I dared greatly, for he was far from dead, and I knew he would in an instant tear the spear from the wcxjd and be free to strike. But in that instant I ran in, and swinging my sword with all my great power, I hewed off his terrible head,

T he heavings and contortions of Satha’s prisoned form in life were naught to the convulsions of his headle.ss length in death. I retreated, dragging the

gigantic head after me with a crooked pole, and at a safe distance from the lashing, flying tail, I set to work. I worked with naked death then, and no man ever toiled more gingerly than did I. For I cut out the poison sacs at the base of the great fangs, and in the terrible venom I soaked the heads of eleven arrows, being careful that only the bronze points were in the liquid, which else had corroded away the wood of the tough shafts. While I was doing this, Grom, driven by comradeship and curiosity, came stealing nervously through the jungle, and his mouth gaped as he looked on the head of Satha.

For hours I steeped the arrowheads in the poison, until they were caked with a horrible green scum, and showed tiny flecks of corrosion where the venom had eaten into the solid bronze. I wrapped them carefully in broad, thick, rubber-like leaves, and then, though night had fallen and the hunting beasts were roaring on every hand, I went back through the jungled hills, Grom with me, until at dawn we came again to the high cliffs that loomed above the Valley of Broken Stones.

At the mouth of tlie valley I broke my spear, and I took all the unpoisoned shafts from my quiver, and snapped them. I painted my face and limbs as the .^sir painted themselves only when tliey went forth to certain doom, and I sang my death-song to the sun as it rose over the cliffs, my yellow mane blowing in the morning wind.

Then I went down into the valley, bow in hand.

Grom could not drive himself to follow me. He lay on his belly in the dust and howled like a dying dog.

I passed the lake and the silent camp where the pyre-ashes still smoldered, and came under the thickening trees beyond. About me the columns loomed, mere

THE VALLEY OF THE WORM'


shapeless heaps from the ravages of staggering eons. The trees grew more dense, and under their vast leafy branches the very light was dusky and evil. As in twilight shadow I saw the ruined temple, Cyclopean walls staggering up from masses of decaying masonry and fallen blocks of stone. About six hundred yards in front of it a great column reared up in an open glade, eighty or ninety feet in height. It was so worn and pitted by weather and time that any child of my tribe could have climbed it, and I marked it and changed my plan.

I came to the ruins and saw huge crumbling walls upholding a domed roof from which many stones had fallen, so that it seemed like the lichen-grown ribs of some mythical monster’s skeleton arching above me. Titanic columns flanked tlie open doorway through which ten elephants could have stalked abreast. Once there might have been inscriptions and heiroglyphics on the pillars and walls, but they were long worn away. Around the great room, on the inner side, ran columns in better state of preservation. On each of these columns was a flat pedestal, and some dim instinctive memory vaguely resurrected a shadowy scene wherein black drums roared madly, and on these, pedestals monstrous beings squatted loathsomely in inexplicable rituals rooted in the black dawn of the universe.

There was no altar — only the mouth of a great well-like shaft in the stone floor, with strange obscene carvings all about the rim. I tore great pieces of stone from the rotting floor and cast them down the shaft which slanted down into utter darkness. I heard them bound along the side, but I did not hear them strike bottom. I cast down stone after stone, each with a searing curse, and at last I heard a sound that was not the dwindling rumble of the falling stones^ Up from

the well floated a weird demon-piping that was a symphony of madness. Far down in the darkness I glimpsed the faint fearful glimmering of a vast white bulk.

I retreated slowly as the piping grew louder, falling back through the broad doorway. I heard a scratching, scrambling noise, and up from the shaft and out of the doorway between the colossal columns came a prancing incredible figure. It went erect like a man, but it was covered with fur, that was shaggiest where its face should have been. If it had ears, nose and a mouth I did not discover them. Only a pair of staring red eyes leered from the furry mask. Its misshapen hands held a strange set of pipes, on which it blew weirdly as it pranced toward me with many a grotesque caper and leap.

Behind it I heard a repulsive obscene noise as of a quaking unstable mass heaving up out of a well. Then I nocked an arrow, drew the cord and sent the shaft singing through the furry breast of tlie dancing monstrosity. It went down as though struck by a thunderbolt, but to my horror the piping continued, though the pipes had fallen from the malformed hands. Then I turned and ran fleetly to the column, up which I swarmed before I looked back. When I reached the pinnacle I looked, and because of the shock and surprize of what I saw, I almost fell from my dizzy perch.

Out of the temple the monstrous dweller in the darkness had come, and I, who had expected a horror yet cast in some terrestrial mold, looked on the spawn of nightmare. From what subterranean hell it crawled in the long ago I know not, nor what black age it represented. But it was not a beast, as humanity knows beasts. I call it a worm for lack of a better term. There is no earthly language which has a name for it. I can only say that it looked somewhat more like a worm



than it did an octopus, a serpent or a dinosaur.

It was white and pulpy, and drew its quaking bulk along the ground, wormfashion. But it had wide flat tentacles, and fleshy feelers, and other adjuncts the use of which I am unable to explain. And it had a long proboscis which it curled and uncurled like an elephant’s trunk. Its forty eyes, set in a horrific circle, were composed of thousands of facets of as many scintillant colors which changed and altered in never-ending transmutation. But through all interplay of hue and glint, they retained their evil intelligence — intelligence there was behind those flickering facets, not human nor yet bestial, but a night-born demoniac intelligence such as men in dreams vaguely sense throbbing titanically in the black gulfs outside our material imiverse. In size the monster was mountainous; its bulk would have dwarfed a mastodon.

But even as I shook with the cosmic horror of the thing, I drew a feathered shaft to my ear and arched it singing on its way. Grass and bushes were crushed flat as the monster came toward me like a moving mountain and shaft after shaft I sent with terrific force and deadly precision. I could not miss so huge a target. The arrows sank to the feathers or clear out of sight in the unstable bulk, each bearing enough poison to have stricken dead a bull elephant. Yet on it came, swiftly, appallingly, apparently heedless of both the shafts and the venom in whidi they were steeped. And all the time the hideous music played a maddening accompaniment, whining thinly from the pipes tliat lay untouched on the groimd.

My confidence faded; even the poison of Satha was futile against this uncanny being. I drove my last shaft almost straight downward into the quaking white

mountain, so close was the monster under my perch. Then suddenly its color altered. A wave of ghastly blue surged over it, and the vast bulk heaved in earthquakelike convulsions. With a terrible plunge it struck the lower part of the column, which crashed to falling shards of stone. But even with the impact, I leaped far out and fell through the empty air full upon the monster’s back.

The spongy skin yielded and gave beneath my feet, and I drove my sword hilt-deep, dragging it through the pulpy* flesh, ripping a horrible yard-long wound, from which oozed a green slime. Then a flip of a cable-like tentacle flicked me from the titan’s back and spun me three hundred feet through the air to crash among a cluster of giant trees.

The impact must have splintered half the bones in my frame, for when I sought to grasp my sword again and crawl anew to the combat, I could not move hand or foot, could only writhe helplessly with my broken back. But I could see the monster and I knew that I had won, even in defeat. The mountainous bulk was heaving and billowing, the tentacles were lashing madly, the antennae writhing and knotting, and the nauseous whiteness had changed to a pale and grisly green. It turned ponderously and lurched back toward the temple, rolling like a crippled ship in a hea\y swell. Trees crashed and splintered as it lumbered against them.

I wept with pure fury because I could not catch up my sword and rush in to die glutting my berserk madness in mighty strokes. But the worm-god was deathstricken and needed not my futile sword. The demon pipes on the ground kept up their infernal tune, and it was like the fiend’s death-dirge. Then as the monster veered and floundered, I saw it catcli up the corpse of its hairy slave. For an instant the apish form dangled in midair,

THE VALLEY OF THE WORM


gripped round by the trunk-like proboscis, then was dashed against the temple wall with a force that reduced the hairy body to a mere shapeless pulp. At that the pipes screamed out horribly, and fell silent for ever.

The titan staggered on the brink of the shaft; then another change came over it — a frightful transfiguration the nature of which I can not yet describe. Even now when I try to think of it clearly, I am only chaotically conscious of a blasphemous, unnatural transmutation of form and substance, shocking and indescribable. Then the strangely altered bulk tumbled into the shaft to roll down into the ultimate darkness from whence it came, and I knew that it was dead. And as it vanished into the well, with a rending, grinding groan the ruined walls quivered from dome to base. They bent inward and buckled with deafening reverberation, the columns splintered, and with a cataclysmic crash the dome itself came thundering down. For an instant the air seemed veiled with flying debris and stone-dust, through which the treetops lashed madly as in a storm or an

earthquake convulsion. Then all was clear again and I stared, shaking the blood from my eyes. Where the temple had stood there lay only a colossal pile of shattered masonry and broken stones, and every column in the valley had fallen, to lie in crumbling shards.

I N THE silence that followed I heard Grom wailing a dirge over me. I bade him lay my sword in my hand, and he did so, and bent close to hear what I had to say, for I was passing swiftly.

’’Let my tribe remember,” I said, speaking slowly. ’’Let the tale be told from village to village, from camp to camp, from tribe to tribe, so that men may know that not man nor beast nor devil may prey in safety on the golden-haired people of Asgard. Let them build me a cairn where I lie and lay me therein with my bow and sword at hand, to guard this valley for ever; so if the ghost of the god I slew comes up from below, my ghost will ever be ready to give it battle.”

And while Grom howled and beat his hairy breast, death came to me in the Valley of the Worm.

arbis of the Lake

By E. HOFFMANN PRICE

T arbis was a living, breathing woman with a living woman’s passion — but what was the thing that lay in the mummy-case like a corpse within its coffin?

“1^ yr Y SON,” said white-haired

l^/l Father Peytral to his compan- **■”■*• ion, whose steel - gray eyes seemed far older than his rugged, bronzed features, "suppose that you abandon this hypothetical friend of yours and tell me what is worrying you. Never mind what I’ll think. Just express yourself.”

John Rankin started. His face darkened for an instant; then he smiled as he caught the kindly expression in the old priest’s eyes.

"I might have known you’d see through it. Father Peytral. But before I go any further, tell me who — what — well, was there ever a woman named Tarbis? I mean, other than ”

Rankin abruptly checked his speech, stared at the earth and at the heels of the unending throng of pilgrims who passed along the Esplanade.

Father Peytral’ s scrutiny of Rankin became keener at the mention of Tarbis.

"What’s that?” he demanded. "Tarbis?” The priest frowned as he groped for a moment for a thought that was evading him, then resumed, "There is an old tradition to the effect that Tarbis, Queen of Ethiopia ”

"Ethiopia?” interrupted Rankin. "Why — she is as white as I am.”

Father Peytral’s eyebrows rose. Then, instead of asking the question that was on his lips, he explained, "Ethiopia in those days was the upper kingdom of Egypt. A queen of that country was no more negro than Rameses the Great.


"And this Tarbis,” he continued, "offered her hand and crown to Moses, who declined both. The pride of the queen and the woman being sorely wounded, she abandoned her throne and set sail, wandering until she reached France. She founded not only the city of Tarbes, which to this day bears her name, but also its neighbor, Lapurdum — our modern Lourdes which God has so signally honored in selecting it as the place for tire apparition of the Holy Virgin to appear.

"They say that the site of the original Lapurdum was three kilometers from here. Its inhabitants practised black magic. The place became a den of necromancers, an affront to God, man, and nature. But instead of following the Scriptural precedent, and destroying Lapurdum with fire, the Almighty caused a flood to rise out of the earth and overwhelm the city, whence the present lake, not far from the outskirts of the modern city of Lourdes.

"All of which,” concluded Father Peytral, "is to be found in the archives of Lourdes.”

"Good God!” muttered Rankin. "Worse and worse! You’ve just succeeded in confirming my outrageous fancy — the thing I’ve tried to deny. . . .”

Rankin suddenly sat bolt-upright. His bronzed cheeks had become a sickly yellow. His eyes were burning with an unnatural light, and his face was drawn and haggard as he regarded the priest for a moment before continuing, "That Ethiopian queen never died. She is living in

W. T.— 4

TARBIS OF THE LAKE

209!

sg.?&;¥f^

ii«

l;liSii

.4>;-.

'll

i|f#^

'‘■-^v'j-

'\.'?-y^y>'fj : “V

iiffi

it'iir o>}e flight below and centuries away."

Lourdes, on the street that leads to the chateau. I knew — I sensed — and now you have confirmed it!”

Father Peytral recogni 2 ed solemnvoiced knowledge.

"My son,” he said in a low, even voice,

W. T.~5

"that any human being, man or woman, could attain everlasting physical life is denied both by the Church and by science. Whatever the source of your obsession, you must forget such fantastic thoughts!”

"Forget them?” exclaimed Rankin.


WEIHD TALES

'Tve tried that for several years. You’ve often tried to get me to open up. I evaded your queries, but my fear finally got the best of me. First it was a lover’s fancy, that idea that Tarbis Dulac had in the dim past discovered the secret of eternal youth. 'That didn’t alarm me. It was just a quaint conceit, a whimsical fancy about a girl I think a great deal of. But at last I found that I was telling myself that I didn’t believe anything of the kind.”

"Which,” said the priest, "assured you that you did believe just that, and it frightened you.”

Rankin nodded.

"So I left Lourdes. I roamed all over Asia, trying to forget. And when I finally succeeded in driving her antique smile from my conscious memory, and with it the idea that she was some one who had lived for ages, she returned and haunted me in nightmarish dreams. She made statuesque gestures, like — ^you've seen them, sculptured ”

"Mats out,” agreed Father Peytral. "In the Louvre, for instance.”

"She wore a tall, curious head-dress. She murmured words that I could not luiderstand, except in momentary flashes. And what I imderstood troubled me more than what I didn’t. I’m afraid of Tarbis — and I’m incurably in love with her.”

H e raised his eyes and made a despairing gesture of his hand, then let his head droop wearily. Father Peytral murmured to himself as he contemplated the hopelessly baffled expression of Rankin’s rugged features.

"And now ]rou tell me a legend of a Tarbis who was a queen. Lord knows how many centuries ago,” muttered Rankin, "And of the lake — her very name today, Duke . . . du Lac . . .” 'Then, jerking himself erect: ‘"What do you say? Am I utterly insane?”

"No,” replied the priest as he grasped Rankin by tlie shoulder. "On the contrary, your doubts prove your sanity. An insane person is assured that every one but himself is unbalanced. Your denying this delusion is your best assurance.”

"Well, what am I to do?” demanded Rankin, taking heart, "I can’t stand being near a woman who I know is an uncanny creature that should have died ages ago. And neither can I stay away from her. I’ve tried both!”

For a moment neither spoke. Then Father Peytral’s frown of perplexed pondering was replaced by a smile of calm assurance.

"You have unwittingly taken the right course,” he said, "in speaking your thought aloud instead of letting it be an inner murmuring that has poisoned your mind. Seek this Tarbis Dulac, look her in the eye, speak to her and tell her your tiiought. Never mind what she thinks of your sanity. Face her unflinchingly and express yourself. Ask her solemnly who and what she is, and tell her why you ask. If she cares for you, she will not be harsh in her judgment.”

"Father Peytral, I can’t do that!” protested Rankin. "She’ll think ” He

regarded the priest with outraged amazement. "You seem to forget ”

Father Peytral shook his gray head. His smile was a tale of time-mellowed grief.

"My son,” he said in a voice that was none the less authoritative for being low, "I do not forget. 1 know. If she cares for you, she will not judge harshly. And once you have enunciated this outrageous thought, you will have conquered it. Your fear and your furtive denials have fostered this obsession, even as your speaking boldly will bum it out.”

Rankin pondered for a moment. He rose from the stone bench and stood erect.

TARBIS OF THE LAKE


His eyes were less haggard, and his drawn face had relaxed.

"Thank you, Father,” he said. "I’ll see her tonight, and I’ll follow your advice.”

Rankin lifted his hat and bowed. Then, to himself, as he strode down the Esplanade, "Fine old man . . . not a sign of a sermon . . . seems perfectly natural to call him Father. . . .”

Like those pilgrims who flock toward Lourdes, Rankin had crossed land and sea for the good of his soul, even though he had not come to pray, or to drink the water of the spring that had miraculously burst forth from the grotto of the great black rock of Massabielle. But, though Father Peytral’s assurance gave Rankin a new grip on himself, and a weapon with which to combat his obsession, the good priest’s words had at the same time strengthened Rankin’s ever-present feeling that he was dealing with one whose name was written on the first pages of the archives of that city which had not always been a holy place, comparable to Rome, Jerusalem, or Mekka.

T hat evening Rankin sat once more in the luxuriously furnished reception room of that outwardly unprepossessing house which was perched on the steep slope of the hill whose high-walled fortress and square donjon built by the Moslem conquerors commanded the valley of the Gave.

"It is good to see you again, mon ami,” she said as she regarded Rankin with her smoldering, long-lashed eyes. "Incurable nomad, you tried to forget Tarbis, didn’t you?”

"But I couldn’t,” Rankin admitted somberly. The assurance that he had gained from Father Peytral was slowly melting before the loveliness of Tarbis Dulac. "And I know now that I never shall. You’ve haunted me. Your memory

followed me and made a madness of my dreams. So I’ve returned.”

"I knew that you would, some day,” murmured the girl. "I’ve been expecting you.”

She smiled that slow, archaic smile that had haunted Rankin; but her eyes were dolorous and incredibly ancient. They contradicted the youtliful freshness of her skin and the gracious contours of her throat and shoulders. Tarbis was uncommonly lovely, and any one but Rankin would have accepted her without undue wonderings and fancies.

Then Rankin nerved himself for the assault.

"I’ve returned to solve the riddle,” said Rankin. "You’ve evaded me and mocked me with that sphinx smile of yours, and your eyes have laughed at me. I’ve wondered entirely too long who and what you are. So I’ve returned to find out, once for all,” he concluded.

The girl’s eyebrows rose in Moorish arches, and she made a fleeting gesture of her slender hand. That damnable, haunting gesture! That insidious suggestion of sculptured figures on the unhallowed granite of deserted temples and rifled tombs!

"Insatiable, aren’t you?” she chided. "What more do you want? What have I ever denied you?”

Tarbis was right. Any sane man should have been content. Yet there was that same evasion which had always left Rankin bafiled. Rankin knew that he had flinched from the assault; that he had failed solemnly to demand who and what she was.

"Tarbis, how old are you?” he asked in blunt-spoken desperation.

"Such a question, mon amt!” Her laugh was light. She refused to take him seriously. Then she answered, "I’m ever so much older than you suspect, John.



But would I be any more pleasing if you could catalogue me like a piece of antique furniture, a bit of jade, a Persian carpet?”

Rankin had to admit that Tarbis was right. And to consider her as a normal woman was the sane and logical thing; yet there would be no peace until she had answered the solemn adjuration he was to make.

*'I wonder,” she continued, "if you are sure that you want to know. Did you ever stop to think that you might have long regrets?”

Worse and yet worse! She was hinting at the very thought that he had sought to disown.

"You know,” said Tarbis after a long pause during which her lips were alternately smiling and grave, "I could just as well question you, and wonder why you've left me several times, with never a quarrel or any apparent necessity. And I do know that you’ve always cared for me — a great deal. There is nothing to prevent your staying in Lourdes. You know I’d not seek any claim on you. Yet you’ve always left.”

"Yes, and always returned!” he retorted, stung by the memory of his resolutions to forget her, and his inevitable relapse from his determination. "But this time I’m going to get the answer. You’re so much more than you appear to be. You’re not one woman but a world of women in one, and you are withholding a hundredfold more than you’ll ever reveal.”

"Such versatility should be pleasing,” suggested Tarbis with a lightness that belied her unsmiling eyes.

Rankin decided that she was not mocking him, but he would no longer accept evasion. He rose abruptly and seized her by the wrist.

"Let’s not fence any longer! Just because I’ve not found words to express myself ”

Rankin stopped short. He had found words, but he dared not use them.

"Then tell me what is on your mind, John,” said Tarbis. "Maybe I’ll understand.”

She spoke very solemnly now. Her voice was grave, and her eyes were unsmiling and age-old. Rankin released her wrist and stared at the golden-olive tint that crept back to erase the white imprint of his grasp. She regarded him intently for a long moment, then spoke again.

"Can’t you forget your morbid curiosity?’! she pleaded. "Can’t you take me for what I am, and without question? Kiss me, and love me for the sake of the evening, and for myself. And if you do care enough to be jealous, stay here in Lourdes, always, and watch me as closely as any Turk ever guarded his harem.”

R ankin saw the gleam of tears in her great lustrous eyes. He knew that he was about to weaken as he had so many times before. At the moment, his thoughts seemed outrageous and insane beyond expression. And then he thought of the obsession that had overwhelmed him and affronted every trace of reason. No matter what she thought of his sanity, he had to declare himself. It would be better for her to think him utterly mad than for him to become so in fact. He nerved himself for the final plunge.

"Tarbis, do you know that most of the time I’ve been resisting the thought that you are not a woman at all, but something "

"Must you know all about me?” she interrupted, recoiling from the implication of his last word, and eager to prevent his expressing that which she sensed would follow. "John, can’t you take

TARBIS OF THE LAKE


anything for granted? Have I ever ”

"No, I can’t,” declared Rankin, evading her attempted change of subject. "I’ve reached the verge of madness, telling myself, arguing with myself to prove that you are not older than any woman has a right to be. In my own mind I’ve denied breaths of rumors and hints that no rational person would bother to deny.”

"Oh, those damnable, meddling priests and villagers!” exclaimed Tarbis with a despairing, impersonal bitterness. "Can’t they live and let live? Can’t they be content to go tlieir placid, ordained ways and leave me in peace?”

"But they didn’t talk about you,” protested Rankin.

"No, but they spoke of her,” countered Tarbis. "John, can’t you forget all this? You do care for me, don’t you? Of am I just another riddle that your insatiable mind must solve lest it perish of unsatisfied vanity? Must you know everything?”

"Not everything, Tarbis. But this one thing, yes; for the good of my soul and my sanity. Who and what are you?” he demanded desperately, steeling himself to resist the appeal that he read in her eyes.

She was about to yield. He could not now relent.

"Since you insist. I’ll tell you,” she finally assented. "No, I’ll show you, and let you draw your own conclusion. 1 will let you meet my rival face to face.”

"Ydur rival?” gasped Rankin, amazed at that turn. "You mean my rival, don’t you?”

"No, I mean what I said: my rival,” affirmed Tarbis. "My rival, and my damnation. She will drive you away. She will everlastingly destroy the happiness I have stolen — we have stolen. But since it must be ”

She took Rankin by the hand, and half

turned toward the winding stairway. 'Then she paused and reached for her wine-glass, which glowed like a Satanic ruby in the light of the candelabrum on the table.

"A toast, Jrffin,” she proposed, with the air of one gallantly drinking to an impending doom. "To my rival and to her damnation!”

Rankin drained his glass. Tarbis barely moistened her lips, and set the stemmed glass back on the old lace ninner that crossed the table. Then she led the way upstairs.

As Rankin passed the great carved newel post and followed her up through the dim light, it seemed that he was marching toward a perilous rendezvous. For a moment he wanted to take the steps three at a bound, seize her and carry her back to the warmth and light of that familiar living-room, to fight those torturing fancies on the level ground of sanity. But Rankin remembered his resolve, and stifled the sadness that was mingled with his sense of impending peril.

Tarbis halted at the head of the stairs. Her blue-black hair glistened under the glow of a shaded oil lamp. Queer, how this luxurious house of hers should be so obsolete in some details. The great square-cut emerald on her finger was phosphorescent as the eyes of a beast of prey. Rankin knew why he observed and made mental comment on such irrelevancies . . . once, in crossing a courtyard to face a firing-squad, he had noted the pattern of the tiles and had observed that the color scheme was clashing. . . .

"She is waiting for us,” he heard Tarbis saying. "Here, in my own room.”

Rankin fought the faging impulse to retreat and let well enough alone. He followed her into the dimness of that familiar room with its great canopied bed



and its dressing-table. A massive handmitior lay, as always, face down, the twining golden serpents of its handle gleaming ominously in the faint light. Rankin wondered again why that mirror was never face up.

Then, in a niche in the masonry of the wall he saw a mummy-case whose gilded features stared vacantly at him.

"She is here,” said Tarbis. "I will leave you with her. Her last words were spoken far back in the first youth of time. Her lips are silent, but she will speak to your mind. And when you knoiv, you may return to the living-room. I’ll probably be asleep on the divan.”

She paused and regarded him intently for a moment; then she continued, "Perhaps, when she tells you who I am, and how old I am, you’ll pass quietly on, without even a word of farewell. But, perhaps — the memories we share — I hope ”

She turned, without expressing her hope. The door closed behind her, leaving Rankin with his strange companion. The loneliness of the room oppressed him. The departure of Tarbis made it appallingly like a tomb.

He felt in his vest pocket for cigarettes, but found none. Well, no matter; although a smoke would be company while he sat there, seeking the point of the tableau she had arranged. Then he saw a silver case among the combs and perfume vials and powder boxes. It was half filled with long, slender cigarettes. He struck light to one. It was ever so faintly scented and had a curious but not unpleasant aroma. That exotic tobacco was appropriate to Tarbis. Rankin snapped his lighter closed and leaned back in his shair to contemplate the gilded features of the sycamore case and its rows of painted hieroglyphs.

T hrough the gray wisps of smoke he regarded the gilded mask, at first idly, then with an intentness that he sought to deny to himself. Something new was stirring disquietingly in his mind. He forced himself to think of Tarbis whose slender length was now stretched out on the Shemaka rug that covered the divan. Tarbis du Lac . . . Tarbis of the Lake . . . asleep or awake, she would be smiling in whimsical mockery of her latest lover.

Even tliough she had never once hinted that he had any predecessors in her affections, though she had never indulged in that mania for boasting that goes disguised as candid confession, Rankin knew that Tarbis must have had many lovers before him. Lie knew that she must have learned ever so long ago that illusion is more alluring than candor.

And this thought slowly but certainly brought his consciousness back to the gilded face before him. The convictions that had haunted him so long became stronger than ever before. Had the occupant of that sycamore case lived until today, she too would have learned from experience that no lover cares for candor about his predecessors. Had she lived

Then Rankin surrendered to a new madness which was more perturbing than that which he had sought to conquer that evening. It was terrifying. He shivered and sat erect in his chair. The scented poison of the cigarette curled unheeded around his fingers and stained them.

If the carver had given life and animation to those long almond-shaped eyes, they would be the eyes of Tarbis. A slow, damning madness corroded Rankin. The fire of the cigarette ate into his fingers and momentarily broke the spell. He ground the butt into the rug beneath his feet and struck light to

TARBIS OF THE LAKE

21S

another smoke. But the distraction was not enough to stop the surge of surmise that had become knowledge. That curved, antique smile of gilt was Tarbis herself staring at him, mocking the wooden conventions of Egyptian carving and fighting through the gold leaf into faithful portraiture.

He knew now what Tarbis had intended to convey to him. He had been haunted by the outlandish idea that Tarbis, ages ago, had discovered the secret of everlasting youth. Rankin had considered such a fancy outrageous, and any woman who inspired the like, uncanny. But now

Tarbis had become sometliing infinitely more terrifying: she was not one who had, ages ago, discovered the secret of eternal youth, but rather the product of an Egyptian magic which had enabled dead Tarbis to materialize and present the semblance of a physical woman.

Rankin clutched the arms of his chair. A searing fire blazed in his brain. Every memory of Tarbis and her amorous encircling arms denied the terrific conviction carried by that gilded smile; yet as he stared at that gilded mask, Rankin began to remember things which he wished that he had never learned. To distract himself from the fancy that Tarbis was age-old, he had listened to adepts in High Asia, who muttered of Tibetan lore, and the lost magic of Egypt, never suspecting that he was acquiring a knowledge that would in the end be more horrible than the whim he sought to cast out.

He wondered when she emerged from the painted case with its painted hieroglyphs. He wondered what she had done with her endless yards of linen bandages, and how she had escaped their firm embrace. Then, bit by bit, there came back to Rankin the words of that slaat-eyed adept he had befriended.

‘'There are nine elements which when fused into a unit make what your eye sees as a single human body: the physical, flesh-and-blood body; the shadow; the double, or astral counterpart called the ka; the soul, or ba; the heart; a spirit called khu; a Power; a Name; and a ninth component which is a motivating force. . . . And all these, mark you, are used in a mystical, or esoteric sense. Yet this knowledge if truly interpreted and rightly used can serve to work all the wonders of the hidden Egyptian magk that was codified by Thoth. . . .”

The embalmed physical body of Tarbis was in the case before Rankin; and that which had seemed to him to be a living woman was but an aggregation of elements that had joined the ka, which lingers near the physical body until It utterly disintegrates.

Every whimsical speech and mannerism of Tarbis came trooping back to confirm Rankin’s dismaying conviction. His brain reeled at the recollection of her avoidance of daylight.

"My dear,” she had murmured one evening, “you sit up to the most unusual hours making love to me — oh, ever so charmingly! — and then you marvel that I’d rather not spend the following day strolling along the Esplanade, or scaling Pic de Jer. And it’s one of my pet vanities, tu com pr ends, this being seen only at my best, at night, by my own lighting. . . .”

It was clear, now. 'That ancient necromancy had not been able to restore the missing shadow, so that Tarbis could not appear by the shadow-casting sun. The Name, the Power, the . . . perhaps all but the one missing and irreplaceable element were present.

Then Rankin’s sanity revolted. He fought the urge to wrench the lid from the sycamore case. He dared not yield



to the demand to find out what was behind that gilded, smiling mask. If indeed it was empty, that would mean that that dead, bandage-swathed thing emerged from its cell to offer him the unholy semblance of a living woman.

Rankin shivered as though a breath of the abysmal outer spaces had been exhaled into his veins and was chilling his blood.

"It can’t be empty!” his mind screamed to his self. "Good God, if it’s empty !”

He dared not complete the utterance. He refused to think of the slender, shapely arms of Tarbis and her curved, carmine smile.

"But if it is in there, then she’s an illusion — a shadow from the tomb. That is as bad — or is it worse?”

R ankin forced his brain to cease that insistent surging that would end by cracking his skull. The veins in his temples would in another moment burst like rotted fire-hose.

Then the strokes of the cathedral bell mercifully interrupted the dread that he could neither accept nor deny. And during the moment of respite accorded him by that sound from the outer world, he noted for the first time the possible significance of the peculiar aroma of the cigarettes Tarbis had left in her case. It was reminiscent of something they smoked in Persia and Hindustan.

He smiled at the gilded mask. The last rich note of the cathedral bell reminded him that Lourdes was a holy city. He envied the calm priests and the pious pilgrims, and was glad that they were there, not far from the foot of the hill.

"Tarbis, you devil, and your cigarettes!” he exulted, gratefully ascribing his dreadful fancies to the influence of charras, or whatever other like drug they

might have contained thus to upset his mind. He sighed with relief and weariness. "But maybe I deserve it.”

He rose and found that he still trembled violently. His legs barely supported his weight; but his brain no longer rocked and quivered from clamorings from beyond the Border.

Tarbis would be waiting for him in the living-room. She would see the mark of terror still branding his features. But he forgave her the ghastly jest. He could be generous, now that he had conquered his obsession by expressing it in words. He had asked her: and she had answered by showing him in her oblique way that there were fancies infinitely more disturbing than that of her possessing everlasting youth. Only Tarbis could have devised such an answer: slender, alluring Tarbis, curled up on the Shemaka rug.

But as he reached the door, a lurking residue of the evening’s horror returned to remind him that his conquest had not been complete. He knew that in the end he would begin to wonder anew whether that case was or was not empty, and whether Tarbis was a revenant imprisoned by day, but loose at night to fascinate him with her archaic, Egyptian smile. And Rankin’s dreadful surmises marched once more in a damning circle that was started afresh by his glance of premature triumph at that gilded mask. That subtle, gilded smile! That hint of a hidden jest!

He retraced his steps. With an effort he grasped the cover. And then he slowly withdrew his hands. He knew that his sanity demanded that he refrain from giving any physical expression to that question. But, as he was about to step back, he knew what would become of his regained reason if he retreated without having learned, for ever and always, what the case contained, whose names and

TARBIS OF THE LAKE


titles were depicted in painted hieroglyphs upon that carven sycamore.

Rankin thrust the cover aside. And then he tore the crumbling linen bandages that swathed the features of the dead. He had ceased thinking; he had nerved himself to the task and he could not stop. His mind was dead, but his fingers lived. They tore another layer of bandages, and another.

Something forced him to look at that face. A blind instinct and a compelling terror urged him to learn the truth, whatever it might be. The dust of centuries mingled with the dust of crumbled linen and pungent spices and choked him. Then he stepped back and regarded the shrunken, hideously life-like features. The gilded mask had been a portrait; hut here he faced Tarbis herself!

He gasped for breath. He sought to deny his eyes, refute the evidence of his senses, prove that he had not felt the burning ardor of those shrivelled lips. This was the supreme horror, the uttermost outrage.

Rankin forced his eyes at last to leave that terrible mockery of the loveliness of Tarbis. And then he saw what was worse: the final link in the evidence that bound Tarbis to that which had lived and died, ages ago. On the now exposed breast of the mummy he could with fatal clearness see a knife scar: that same scar that marred the perfection of the living Tarbis — or the one that he had thought was living.

Rankin was bereft of all sensation but a terrific whirring in his ears and a diabolical drumming and thundering at his temples. He leaped back and flung open the door of the room. For a moment he thought of flight — mad, raving flight in any direction whatsoever. Then he knew that he could never escape that which he had seen face to face, never elude the

recollection of an Egyptian magic that was based on the reassembling of the scattered nine elements of a corpse. Rankin had penetrated the veil; he had pried, and loosed upon himself a doom.

He thought for an instant of the day when he had met Tarbis, a living, lovely woman. Each move that he had made had taken him farther from the woman he loved; yet the knowledge that there was no refuge from that which stared at him drove him to his final desperate resource.

Rankin snatched the oil lamp from its bracket and imscrewed its top. Then he poured the contents of the bowl over the ghastly testimony that damned and made horrible all those nights whose strange glamor had been Tarbis Dulac and her slow, archaic smile. He applied the stillburning wick to the linen bandages of the mummy. That would settle it, once and for all: decide now and for ever who and what was waiting for him in that living-room, one flight below, and centuries away.

The arbitration of the flames would be final. If Tarbis was a woman, she would forgive the wanton destruction of that grisly relic, and be glad that he was no longer concerned with the fantastic thought that she was an uncanny creature who had defied death. And if she were not a woman

A s THE flames enveloped the bandaged - figure, he heard the voice of Tarbis screaming from the anguish of the dissolution of the bonds that tied the spiritual essences to the mummified body. He heard that awful cry from the livingroom and knew that that fascinating simulacrum was in the agony of a second and final separation from its body. And the horror of having loved a shadow from the tomb was drowned in the greater hor218


for of having caused the eyerlastlng extinction of one who had loved life so well that she had returned from the dim abode of the dead.

Rankin dared not pass through that lower room to escape. And escape he must! Instantly, or never; yet to see beloved Tarbis — beloved though she was but the khu, the ka, the Name, and the Power assembled by a forgotten necromancer — to see her being consumed by the astral counterpart of the flames which enveloped the linen-bandaged body — ^ —

Rankin burst through the window at the head of the stairs. As he leaped, he heard above the crash and tinkle of glass a scream of mortal misery and despair more acute than any flame could wrench from her lips. He heard her very clearly pronounce his name.

She knew. As much of her as still remained knew that no power could ever restore her; that Rankin had destroyed her.

Rankin picked himself from the ground and fled blindly, without thought or sensation, and maddened by that final cry of unutterable agony. In his flight down the steep slope of the street leading from the hill of the citadel to the level of

the city, Rankin stumbled and pitched headlong in a heap against a wall.

The impact numbed his senses and for the moment dulled the misery of his mind. Then a man’s voice pronounced his name, and a firm hand helped him to his feet.

In the moonlight he recognized Father Peytral. The old priest’s usually placid features were tense, as with a reflected terror that he read in Rankin’s staring eyes.

"My son,” said Father Peytral in a low, trembling voice, "I was watching, across the street. I heard, and I saw the flames. ... You have freed her earthbound soul . . . no, don’t try to explain. . . . Little as I know, it is too much. But she is released from an abomination.

"I understand your grief,” the old man continued, as he took Rankin’s arm. "Let us pray for her soul, and the healing of yours.”

"Too late,” muttered Rankin in a strained, hoarse voice. 'The unutterable grief of Tarbis rang again through his memory. “My soul is damned beyond the redemption of time, or your prayers.”

Rankin bowed; and the priest did not seek to detain him as he turned and ^ode down the slope.

an Who Returned

By EDMOND HAMILTON

The story of a man who was laid away in his coffin, and the unexpected reception he got when he returned to his friends

OHN WOODFORD in his first moments of returning consciousness was not aware that he was lying in his cofi&n. He had only a dull knowledge that he lay in utter darkness and that there was a close, heavy quality in the air he breathed. He felt very weak and had only a dim curiosity as to where he was and how he had come there.

He knew that he was not lying in his bedroom at home, for the darkness there was never so complete as this. Home? That memory brought others to John Woodford’s dulled brain and he recalled his wife now, and his son. He remembered too that he had been ill at home, very ill. And that was all that he could remember.




What was this place to which he had been brought? Why was the darkness so complete and the silence so unbroken, and why was there no one near him? He was a sick man, and they should have given him better care than this. He lay with a dull irritation at this treatment growing in his mind.

Then he became aware that breathing was beginning to hurt his lungs, that the air seemed warm and foul. Why did not someone open a window? His irritation grew to such a point that it spurred his muscles into action. He put out his right hand to reach for a bell or a lightbutton.

His hand moved slowly only a few inches to the side and then was stopped by an unyielding barrier. His fingers feebly examined it. It seemed a solid wall of wood or metal faced with smooth satin. It extended all along his right side, and when he weakly moved his other arm he found a similar wall on that side too.

His irritation gave way to mystification. Why in the world had they put him, a sick man, into this narrow place? Why, his shoulders rubbed against the sides on either side. He would soon know the reason for it, he told himself. He raised up to give utterance to a call that would bring those in attendance on him.

To his utter amazement his head bumped against a similar silk-lined wall directly above his face. He raised his arms in the darkness and discovered with growing astonishment that this wall or ceiling extended above him from head to foot, like those on either side. He lay upon a similar silk-padded surface. Why in the name of all that was holy had they put him into a silk-lined box like this?

Woodford’s brain was puzzling this when a minor irritation made itself felt. His collar was hurting him. It was a high, stiff collar and it was pressing into the

flesh of his neck. But this again was mystery^ — that he should be wearing a stiff collar. Why had they dressed a sick man in formal clothes and put him into this box?

Suddenly John Woodford shrieked, and the echoes of his scream reverberated around his ears like hideous, demoniac laughter. He suddenly knew the answer to it all. He was not a sick man any more at all. He was a dead man! Or at least they had thought him dead and had put him into this coffin and closed it down! He was buried alive!

'The fears of his lifetime had come true; his secret, dark forebodings were hideously realized. From earliest childhood he had feared this very horror, for he had known himself subject to cataleptic sleeps hardly to be distinguished from death. He had had nightmares of premature buriaL Even after the proneness to the cataleptic condition seemed to have left him, his fears had clung to him.

He had never told his wife or son of his fears, but they had persisted. 'They had inspired him to exact a promise that he would not be embalmed when buried, and would be interred in his private vault instead of in the earth. He had thought that in case he were not really dead these provisions might save his life, but now he realized that they only laid him open to the horrible fate he had dreaded. He knew with terrible certainty that he lay now in his coffin in the stone vault in the quiet cemetery. His screams could not be heard outside the vault, probably not even outside the coffin. As long as he had lain in cataleptic sleep he had not breathed, but now that he was awake and breathing, the air in the coffin was rapidly being exhausted and he was doomed to perish of suffocation.

John Woodford went temporarily mad. He screanoed with feaixhok^ throat, and

THE MAN WHO RETURNED


*s he shrieked he clawed with hands and feet at the unyielding satin-covered surfaces around and above him. He beat upward as best he could upon the coffin’s Ed with his clenched fists, but the heavy fastenings held firm.

He yelled until his throat was too swollen to give utterance to further sound. He clawed at the top until he broke his nails against the metal behind the silk padding. He raised his head and beat against the top with it until he fell back half-stunned.

He lay exhausted for moftients, unable to make further efforts. In his brain marched a hideous pageant of horrors. The air seemed much closer and hotter now, seemed to burn his lungs with each breath he inhaled. With sudden return of his frenzy he shrieked and shrieked again.

'This would not do. He was in a horrible situation but he must do the best he could not to give way to the horror. He had not many minutes left and he must use them in the most rational way possible to try to escape his terrible prison.

With this resolution a little calm came to him and he began to test his powers of movement. He clenched his fists again and hammered upward. But this did no good. His arms were jammed so close against his body by the coffin’s narrowness that he could not strike a strong blow, nor had he any leverage to push strongly upward.

What about his feet? Feverishly he tried them, but foxmd his kidrs upward even less powerful. He thought of himching up his knees and thus bursting up the lid, but found that he could not raise his knees high enough, and that when he pressed upward with them against the Ed his feet simply slid away on the smooth silk of the co^’s bottom.

Now the breaths he drew seared his

lungs and nostrils and his brain seemed on fire. He knew his strength was waning and that before long he would lose consciousness. He must do whatever he could swiftly. He felt the soft silk about him and the dreadful irony cf it came home to him — he had been placed so lovingly in this death-trap!

He tried to turn on his side, for he thought now that he might use his shoulders to heave up against the lid. But turning was not easy in the cramped coffin and had to be accomplished by a myriad little hitching movements, an infinitely slow and painful process.

J OHN WOODFORD hitched and squirmed desperately until he lay on his left side. He found then that his right shoulder touched the lid above. He braced his left shoulder on the coffin’s bottom and heaved upward with all his stren gth . 'lEere was no result: the Ed seemed as immovable as ever.

He heaved again, despair fast filling his heart. He knew that very soon he would give way and shriek and claw. There was already a ringing in his ears. He had not many minutes left. With the utter frenzy of despair he heaved upward again with his shoulder.

'Ihis time there was a grating sound of something giving above. 'The sound was like the wild peal of thousands of bells of hope to John Woodford’s ears. He heaved quickly again and again at the lid. Paying no attention to the bruising of his shoulder, he pressed upward with every ounce of his strength.

llierc was another grating sound, then a snap of metal fastenings breaking, and as he shoved upward with convulsive effort the heavy metal lid swung up and over and struck the stone wall with a deep clang. A flood of cold air struck him. He struggled up over the coffin’s side.



dropped a few feet to a stone floor, and lay in a huddled mass.

It was minutes before he had mastered himself and summoned enough strength to stand up. He stood inside a little vault that held no coffin but his own. Its interior was in darkness save for a dim shaft of starlight that came through a tiny window high up in one wall.

John Woodford stumbled to the vault’s heavy iron doors and fumbled at their lode. He had an uncontrollable horror of this place that had almost been the scene of his perishing. The coffin there on the shelf with its lid leaning against the stone wall seemed gaping for him with its dark, cavernous mouth.

He worked frantically at the lock. What if he were not able to escape from the vault? But the heavy lock was easily manipulated on the inside, he found. He managed to turn its tumbler and shoot its bar and then the heavy iron doors swung open. John Woodford stepped eagerly out into the night.

He stopped on the vault’s threshold, closing the doors behind him and then looking forth with inexpressible emotions. The cemetery lay in the starlight before him as a dim, ghostly city of looming monuments and vaults. Little sheets of ice glinted here and there in the dim light, and the air was biting in its cold. Outside the cemetery’s low wall blinked the lights of the surrounding city.

Woodford started eagerly across the cemetery, unheeding of the cold. Somewhere across the lights of the city was his home, his wife, and somewhere his son — thinking him dead, mourning him. How glad they would be when he came back to them, alive! His heart expanded as he pictured their amazement and their joy at his return.

He came to the low stone wall of the cemetery and clambered quickly over it.

It was apparently well after midnight, for the cars and pedestrians in sight in this suburban section were few.

Woodford hurried along the street. He passed people who looked at him in surprize, and only after some time did he realize the oddness of his appearance. A middle-aged man clad in a formal suit and lacking hat and overcoat was an odd person to meet on a suburban street on a winter midnight.

But he paid small attention to their stares. He did turn up the collar of his frock coat to keep out the cold. But he hardly felt the frigid air in the emotions that filled him. He wanted to get home, to get back to Helen, to witness her stupefaction and dawning joy when she saw him returned from the dead, living.

A STREET-CAR came clanging along and • John Woodford stepped quickly out to board it, but almost as quickly stepped back. He had mechanically thrust his hand into his pocket and found it quite empty. ’That was to be expected, of course. They didn’t put money in a dead man’s clothes. No matter, he would soon be there on foot.

As he reached the section in which his home was located, he glanced in a storewindow in passing and saw on a tearsheet calendar a big black date that made him gasp. It was a date ten days later than the one he last remembered. He had been buried in the vault for more than a week!

More than a week in that coffin! It seemed incredible, terrible. But that did not matter now, he told himself. It would only make the joy of his wife and son the greater when they found he was alive. To Woodford himself it seemed as though he v/ere returning from a journey rather than from the dead.

Returned from the dead! As he hasTHE MAN WHO RETURNED


tened along the tree-bordered street on which his home was located, he almost laughed aloud as he thought of how amazed some of his friends would be when they met him. They would think him a ghost or a walking corpse, would perhaps shrink in terror from him at first.

But that thought brought another: he must not walk in on Helen too abruptly. The husband she had buried ten days ago must not appear too suddenly or the shock might easily kill her. He must contrive somehow to soften the shock of his appearance, must make sure that he did not startle her too much.

With this resolve in mind, when he reached his big house set well back from the street, Woodford turned aside through the grounds instead of approaching the front entrance. He saw windows lighted in the library of the house and he went toward, them. He would see who was there, would try to break the news of his return gently to Helen.

He silently climbed onto the terrace outside the library windows and approached the tall casements. He peered in.

Through the silken curtains inside he could clearly see the room’s soft-lit interior, cozy with the shelves of his books and with the lamps and fireplace.

Helen, his wife, sat on a sofa with her back partly toward the window. Beside her sat a man that Woodford recognized as one of their closest friends, Curtis Dawes.

Sight of Dawes gave Woodford an idea. He would get Dawes outside in some way and have him break the news of his return to Helen. His heart was pounding at sight of his wife.

Then Curtis Dawes spoke, bis words dimly audible to Woodford outside the window. "Happy, Helen?" he was asking.

''So happy, dear,” she answered, turning toward him.

Out in the darkness Woodford stared in perplexed wonder. How could she be happy when she thought her husband dead and buried?

He heard Curtis Dawes speaking again. "It was a long time," the man was saying. "Those years that I waited, Helen."

She laid her hand tenderly on his. "I know, and you never said a word. I respected so your loyalty to John.”

She lcx)ked into the fire musingly. "John was a good husband. Curt. He really loved me and I never let him guess that I didn’t love him, that it was you, his friend, I loved. But when he died I couldn’t feel grief. I felt regret for his sake, of course, but underneath it was the consciousness that at last you and I were free to love each other.”

Dawes’ arm went tenderly around her shoulder. "Darling, you don’t regret that I talked you into marrying me right away? You don’t care that people may be talking about us?”

"I don’t care for anything but you,” she told him. "John was dead, young Jack has his own home and wife, and there was no reason in the world why we should not marry. I’m glad that we did.”

In the darkness outside the window a stunned, dazed John Woodford saw her lift an illumined face toward the man’s,

'T’m proud to be your wife at last, dear, no matter what anyone may say about us,” he heard,

W OODFORD djrew slowly back from the window. He paused in the daricness under the trees, his mind shaken, tom.

So tins was his homecoming from the tomb? 'This was the joy he had anticipated in Helen when be returned?

It couldn’t be the tmth! His ears had deceived him — Helen could not be the wife of Curtis Dawes! Yet part of his



mind told him remorselessly that it was true.

He had always sensed that Helen’s feeling for him was not as strong as his for her. But that she had loved Dawes he had never dreamed. Yet now he remembered Dawes’ frequent visits, the odd silences between him and Helen. He remembered a thousand trifles that spoke of the love which these two had cherished for each other.

What was he, John Woodford, to do? Walk in upon them and tell them tliat they had been premature in counting him dead, that he had come back to claim his position in life and his wife again?

He couldn’t do it! If Helen during those years had wavered in the least in her loyalty to him, he would have had less compunction. But in the face of those years of silent, uncomplaining life with him, he couldn’t now reappear to her and blast her new-found happiness and blacken her name.

Woodford laughed a little, bitterly. He was then to be an Enoch Arden from the tomb. A strange role, surely, yet it was the only one open to him.

What was he to do? He couldn’t let Helen know now that he was alive, couldn’t return to the home that had been his. Yet he must go somewhere. Where?

With a sudden leap of the heart he thought of Jack, his son. He could at least go to Jack, let his son know that he was living. Jack at least would be overjoyed to see him, and would keep the fact of his return secret from his mother.

John Woodford, with that thought rekindling a little his numbed feelings, started back through the trees toward the street. Where he had approached tlie house but minutes before with eager steps, he stole away now like a thief fearful of being observed.

He reached the street and started

across the blocks toward the cottage of his son. Few were abroad, for the cold seemed increasing and it was well past midnight. Woodford mechanically rubbed his stiffened hands as he hurried along.

He came to his son’s neat little white cottage, and felt relief as he saw lights from its lower windows also. He had feared that no one would be up. He crossed the frozen lawn to the lighted windows, intent on seeing if Jack were there and if he were alone.

He peered in, as he had done at his own home. Jack was sitting at a little desk and his young wife was perched on the arm of his chair and was listening as he explained something to her from a sheet of writing on the desk.

John Woodford, pressing his face against the cold window-pane, could hear Jack’s words.

"You see, Dorothy, we can just make it by adding our savings to Dad’s insurance money,’’ Jack was saying.

"Oh, Jack!’’ cried Dorothy happily. "And it’s what you’ve wanted so long, a little business of your own!’’

Jack nodded. "It won’t be very big to start with, but I’ll make it grow, all right. This is the chance I’ve been hoping for and I’m sure going to make the most of it.

"Of coiurse,” he said, his face sobering a little, “it’s too bad about Dad going like that. But seeing that he did die, the insurance money solves our problems of getting started. Now you take the overhead ’’ he said, and began unreeling

a string of figures to the intent Dorothy.

J OHN WOODFORD drew slowly back from the window. He felt more dazed and bewildered than ever. He had forgotten the insurance he had carried, which he had intended to give Jack his start. But of course, he saw now, it had

W. T.— 5

THE MAN WHO RETURNED


been paid over when he was believed dead.

He was not dead, but living. Yet if he let Jack know that, it meant the end of his son’s long-desired opportunity. Jack would have to return the insurance money to the company, wrecking his dreamed-of chance. How could he let him know, then?

He, John Woodford, had already decided that he must remain dead to his wife and therefore to the world. He might as well remain so to his son, also. It was for the best. John Woodford melted away from the cottage into the darkness.

When he reached the street he stood in indecision. A freezing wind had begun to blow, and he felt very cold without an overcoat. Mechanically he turned his coat-collar closer around his neck.

He tried to think what he must do. Neither Helen nor Jack must know that he was living, and that meant that no one in the city must know. He must get out of the town to some other place, take up life under some other name.

But he would need help, money, to do that. Where was he to get them? Barred as he was from calling on his wife or son, to whom could he turn for help without letting his return become generally known?

Howard Norse! The name came at once to Woodford’s lips. Norse had been his employer, head of the firm where Woodford had held a position for many years. Woodford had been one of his oldest employees. Howard Norse would help him to get a position somewhere else, and would keep his reappearance secret.

He knew where Norse’s residence was, several miles out in the countr)'. But he couldn’t walk that far, and he had no W. T.— 6

taxi or trolley-fare. He would have to telephone Norse.

W OODFORD walked back toward the city’s central section, head bent against the piercing cold wind. He succeeded in finding an all-night lunchroom whose proprietor allowed him to use the telephone. With cold-stiffened fingers he dialed Norse’s number.

Howard Norse’s sleepy voice soon came over the wire. "Mr. Norse, this is Woodford — ^John Woodford,” he said quickly.

There was an incredulous exclamation from Howard Norse. "You’re crazy! John Woodford’s been dead and buried for a couple of weeks!”

"No, I tell you it’s John Woodford!” insisted Woodford. "I’m not dead at all. I’m as living as you are! If you’ll come into town for me you’ll see for yourself.”

"I’m not likely to drive to town at two in the morning to look at a maniac,” Norse replied acidly. "Whatever your game is, you’re wasting your time on me.”

"But you’ve got to help me!” Woodford cried. "I’ve got to have money, a chance to get out of the city without anyone knowing. I gave your firm my services for years and now you’ve got to give me help!”

"Listen to me, whoever you are,” snapped Norse over the wire. "I was bothered long enough with John Woodford when he was living — ^he was so inefficient we’d have kicked him out long ago if we hadn’t been sorry for him. But now that he’s dead, you needn’t think you can bother me in his name. Good-night!”

The receiver clicked in Woodford’s unbelieving ear.

He stared at the instrument. So that was what they had really thought of him



at the firm — there where he had always thought himself one of the most highly valued of employees!

But there must be someone upon whom he could call for help; someone he could convince that John Woodford was still living; someone who would be glad to tliink that he might be living.

What about Willis Grann? Grann had been his closest friend next to Curtis Dawes. He had^^lent money more than once to Woodford in the past, and certainly should be willing to do so now.

Hastily Woodford called Grann’s number. This time he was more careful in his approach, when he heard the other’s voice.

"Willis, I’ve got something to tell you that may sound incredible, but you’ve got to believe, do you hear.^’’ he said.

"Who is this and what in the world are you talking about?” demanded Grann’s startled voice.

"Willis, this is John Woodford. Do you hear, John Woodford! Everyone thinks I’m dead but I’m not, and I’ve got to see you.”

"What?” cried the other’s voice over the telephone. "Why, you must be drunk. I saw Woodford lying in his coffin myself, so I know he’s dead.”

"I tell you, it’s not so. I’m not dead!” Woodford almost screamed. "I’ve got to get some money, though, to get away from here and you must lend it to me! You always lent it to me before, and I need it now worse than ever I did. I’ve got to get away!”

"So that’s it!” said Willis Grann. "Because I used to help Woodford out you think you can get money from me by just calling me up and pretending that you’re he. Why, Woodford himself was the biggest pest in the world with his constant borrowings. I felt almost relieved when he died. And now you try to make

me believe that he’s come back from the dead to pester me again!”

"But he never died — I’m John Woodford really ” Woodford protested

vainly.

"Sorry, old top,” returned Grann’s mocking voice. "Next time pick a living person to impersonate, not a dead one.”

He hung up. John Woodford slowly replaced the receiver and made his way out to tlie street.

T he wind was blowing harder and now was bringing with it clouds of fine snow that stung against his face like sand. He shivered as he stumbled along the streets of dark shops, his body freezing as his mind was frozen.

There was no one from whom he could get help, he saw. His paramount necessity was still to get out of the city, and to do that he must rely on himself.

The icy blasts of the snow-laden wind penetrated through his tliin coat. His hands were shaking with the cold.

A sign caught Woodford’s eye, the illuminated beacon of a relief lodginghouse. At once he made his way toward it. He could at least sleep there tonight, get started from the city in the morning.

The shabby men dozing inside in chairs looked queer!/ at him as he entered. So did the young clerk to whom he made his way.

"I’d — I’d like to stay here tonight,” he said to the clerk.

The clerk stared. "Are you trying to kid me?”

Woodford shook his head. "No, I’m penniless and it’s cold outside. I’ve got to stay somewhere.”

The clerk smiled disdainfully. "Listen, fellow, no one with duds like yours is that hard up. Scram before I call a cop.”

Woodford looked down at his clothes, his frock coat and stiff white shirt and

THE MAN WHO RETURNED

gleaming patent-leather shoes, and under stood.

He said desperately to the clerk, "But these clothes don’t mean anything. I tell you, I haven’t a penny!”

"Will you beat it before I have you thrown out of here.?” the clerk demanded.

Woodford backed toward the door. He went outside again into the cold. The wind had increased and more snow was falling; The front of Woodford's coat was soon covered with it as he pushed along.

It came to him as a queer joke that the splendor of his funeral clothes should keep him from getting help now. He couldn’t even beg a passer-by for a dime. Who would give to a panhandler in formal clothes.?

Woodford felt his body quivering and his teeth chattering from sheer cold. If he could only get out of the blast of the icy wind! His eyes sought desperately along the street for a hallway where he might shelter himself.

He found a deep doorway and crouched down inside it, out of the wind and driving snow. But hardly had he done so when a heavy step paused in front of him and a nightstick rapped his feet smartly. Art authoritative Voice ordered him to get up and go home.

Woodford did not try to explain to the policeman that he was not a drunken citizen fallen by the way. He got wearily to his feet and moved on along the street, unable to see more than a few feet ahead for the whirl of snow.

The snow on which he was walking penetrated the thin shoes he wore, and his feet were soon even colder than the rest of his body. He walked with slow, dragging steps, head bent against the storm of white.

He was dully aware that the dark shops beside him had given way to a low stone


wall. With a sudden start he recognized it as the wall of the cemetery which he had left but hours before, the cemetery from a vault in which he had escaped,

'The vault! Why hadn’t he thought of it before? he asked himself. The vault would be a shelter from the freezing wind and snow. He could stay there for the night v/ithout anyone objecting.

He paused, feeling for a moment a little renewal of his former terrors. Did he dare go back into that place from which he had struggled to escape? Then an extra-strong blast of icy air struck him and decided him — the vault would be shelter and that was what his frozen body craved more than anything else.

Stiffly he climbed over the low stone wall and made his way through the cemetery’s whitened monuments and vaults toward the one from which he had escaped. The driving snow covered his tracks almost as he made them, as he trudged toward die vault.

He reached it and tried its iron doors anxiously. Suppose he had locked, them when he left! But to his.relief they swung open, and he entered and shut them. If was dark inside, but he was out of the wind and snow now and his numbed body felt a little relief.

W OODFORD sat down in the corner of the vault. It was a shelter for the night, at least. It seemed rather ironic that he had had to come back here for shelter, but it was something to be thankful for that he had even this. In the morning, when the storm was over, he could leave without anyone seeing and get out of the city.

He sat listening to the wind and snow shriek outside. The stone floor of the vault was very cold, so cold that he felt his limbs stiffening and cramping, and finally he stood up unsteadily and paced



to and fro in the vault, chafing his arms and hands.

If he had only a blanket, or even a heavy coat, to lie upon! He’d freeze there upon the stone floor. Then as he turned in his pacing he bumped into the coffin on the shelf and a new idea was born in his mind.

The coffin! Why, the interior of it was lined deep with silk and satin padding. It would be warm in tlie coffin. He could sleep in it far better than on the cold stone floor. But did he dare to reenter it.^

Again Woodford felt faintly the former terrors he had experienced when he had awakened in it. But they meant nothing, he told himself. He would not be fastened in, this time, and his frozen flesh yearned for the warmth of the coffin’s lining.

Slowly, carefully, he climbed up and lowered himself into the coffin and stretdied out. 'The silk and padding he sank into had a grateful warmth. He lowered his head upon the soft little pillow with a sigh of relief. This was better.

He experienced an almost luxurious comfort now; but after he had lain for a little while he felt that the top of his body was still cold, where tlie cold air came into the open coffin’s top. That cold air entering kept him from being completely warm. If the lid above him were just closed to keep out the cold air

He reached up and got the edge of the heavy metal lid, then let it down upon himself. He was completely in the dark.

now, inside the closed coffin. But he was warm, too, for the lid kept out the cold air. And he was getting warmer all the time, as his body warmed up the interior.

Yes, it was far more comfortable with the lid closed. An even warmth now pervaded his whole being, and the air inside the coffin was still getting warmer and thicker. He felt a litde drowsy now, as he breathed that warm air, felt luxuriously sleepy as he lay on the soft silk.

It was getting a little harder to breathe, somehow, as tlie air became thicker. He ought really to raise the coffin lid and let in some fresh air. But it was so warm now, and the air outside was so cold, and he was more and more sleepy.

Something dim and receding in his fading consciousness told him that he was on the way to suffocation. But what if he was? was his sleepy thought. He was better off in here than back in the world outside. He had been a fool ever to fight so hard before to get out of his warm, comfortable coffin, to get bade to that outside world.

No, it was better like this, tlie darkness and the warmth and the sleep that advanced. Nobody would ever know that he had awakened at all, that he had been away from here at all. Everything would be just as before — just as before. And with that comforting assurance, John Woodford was swept farther and farther down the dark stream of unconsciousness from which this time there would be no returning.

By ANTHONY RUD

A tale of a horde of venomous spiders and two men — one brave, the other not so brave — in a hidden treasure-room of the Mayas

AT LEAST not alone, Senor! If I /-% were like you, young, handsome, and with the strength of two men in my arms, I would not venture at all down into those ancient workings. I foresee trouble; and in those horrible, dripping tunnels below Croszchen Pahna where death may lurk in every slime-lined

crevice, a comrade who will not flinch is even more necessary than your own great courage.

Ah, it is not a nice place down there! I have been part- way, many years ago. I suppose every young mozo in all this district of Quintana Roo once could say as much. For there was a tale of treasure,




of a room of gold and skeletons. Not this cheap ore which remains, and which costs more to mine than the ore will yield. A storeroom of the heavy nuggets found in rotten rock. And sealed up with that gold, the bodies of all the Indians who worked down in the bowels of the earth for their masters, the Conquistadores.

Not the first time I ventured there, but the second, death reached out with many hairy fingers and caught its prey. The first time I descended alone, and in terror. I returned to the blessed daylight very quickly — but not alone. A multitude of hairy horrors came with me! Even now after nearly thirty years, when I eat to a fulness of came at nightfall, I know what will happen. Ever since then, in all my dreams 1 see

But the senor shrugs. He is a hothead, like all Americanos. He wishes knowledge, not the fancies of an old man. It shall be so. Even today, the offer of fifty pesos is enough to tempt; for after all, one must eat. If the senor will get a good comrade, and both wish it, I shall guide them half-way. That is as far as my knowledge extends. I will build a fire, then, in the Room of Many Craters, and wait. But I will not go imless I judge the senor has a man of bravery for a comrade.

How do I know the Room of Many Craters is half-way? Well, it is a guess, Senor, but a good guess, I believe. The Indians who slaved in the mine for their Spanish masters never saw daylight. They dwelt in this huge room, which is a great bubble in the rock.

Also, a hundred or more of them worked here in this room. The round craters were worn in the floor by many men pushing against tree-trunks, and walking endlessly in circles. This ground the rotten ore, and in time scoured out the aaters in the floor.

According to old story, which has much sign of truth, the gold secured from the ore had to be stored many months. Ships came seldom, not every few weeks like today when steam drives ships as legs drive water-beetles, wherever they wish to go. There were no strongholds above ground; so the gold was taken a long way through a secret passage, and stored in a barren room where guards watched night and day.

And that room once was found, though its unimaginable store of yellow gold still remains untouched. Unless more slides have come, it is probable that the senor will know the right passage or crevice, for before he may force a way it will be necessary to move a moldered skeleton.

That is not the short and rather frail bone frame of one of my people. That youth was strong, blue of eye like the senor himself. Yellow of hair. Easy to make smile or laugh. But he did not laugh once, from the time he, his companion and I reached the Room of Craters, where I was to wait. There is a hot, wet atmosphere down there. And among the many things which hang in that heavy air is a queer, fetid stench which sends the heart of man down into his boots.

That time, when I saw the tv/o men leave me by my fire in the Room of Craters, I crossed myself and prayed for their safe return. I did not even think of the gold, then, though they had promised me all I could carry, as my share. The one with blue eyes, the laughing one, was such as my mother’s people worshipped in the old days, you understand. I was loyal to his companion, naturally; but to bim I would render any service but one! I would not go farther into that place of hairy death! No, not even loyalty could take me there. That is why I caution the senor to choose his comrade with care.

Those two young men left me, and

THE PLACE OF HAIRY DEATH


vanished into the wet dark. And only the wrong one returned. I must tell a little of those men and their story, so the se/2or can know how that could be. Usually it is the other way. In most struggles with darkness and evil, the strongest and most right it is, who comes back to tell the talc. But not this time.

T he tale, the senar must understand, is pieced together from fragments. It may not all be true exactly as I tell it. But the main facts are as I say. There is no need even to imagine a hatred or jealousy between the two men. There was none. One man was strong and poor. The other was weak — and the heir to millions of Americano gold. He, at least, should never have risked health and mind and life for more wealth. But thus it is in this world. No one is satisfied.

The blue-eyed, laughing man had been the superintendent of the great jeniquen rope factory in Valladolid, up north forty miles from here, in Yucatan. The senor doubtless knows the factory, for he came by narrow-gage railway, and Valladolid is the terminus.

The factory, and perhaps two hundred square miles of the great jeniquen plantations, were owned by the Americano father of the second man, the dark-skinned young fellow who was known as Sefior Lester Ainslee.

It seems that the great father of Senor Lester did not approve of his boy. It was wished that Senor Lester get out into the jungle and what is called "rough it,” drinking less wine, smoking fewer cigarettes, and learning to work hard with his hands. That was strange to me; for a sharp glance told me that one single day in the broiling sun, cutting jeniquen, would kill the delicate boy. But fathers are strange. They love and marry women who are delicate and nervous, and who

die young. Then they demand their own strength in their offspring — when it is well known that Nature orders it otherwise. No breeder of fine horses would be such a fool. He would look for the characteristics of the dam to appear in the male colt; and those of the sturdy sire to show themselves in the female get.

Senor Jim Coulter — he was the blond, laughing one — was perhaps twenty-eight, though he looked not so much older than his companion. The boy, a fortnight or so before, had got drunk to celebrate his twenty-first birthday, and there were purple saucers under his eyes remaining from that bad time.

Then it was tliat the rich father could endure no more. He sent the boy down from the United States to work in the rope factory, or in the fields. Alongside the most ignorant peons, you understand — mere beasts who have slaved for generations under the lash of the overseers of the hacisndados!

It was asking the impossible. The factory superintendent, Senor Jim Coulter, sent many telegraph messages; for tlie unreasonable father would hold him responsible, and he knew that nothing save quick death could happen to the frail young man in his charge.

In the end it was agreed that Senor Jim would take one month of holiday from the rope factory, and accompany the boy from the north on a trip into the jungle. The Senor Jim somewhere had got hold of a story which told of the treasure vault still remaining deep in this Madre d’Oro Mine, two thousand feet below the ancient temple at Croszchen Pahna. The story was an old one to me, of course, and probably true.

When they came to me, hearing that I had ventured down into these old workings at much risk to my life, and I assured them that no one ever had dared



go far enough to find the treasure room, they nearly burst with excitement. What to them were walls that fell at a touch? What were a few deadly vipers, a thousand ten-inch scorpions waving their armored tails, or the horrible hosts of conechos — those great, leaping spiders which Americanos call tarantulas?

True, Senor, you frown impatiently. You will say to me, ah, but everyone knows a tarantula is not deadly poison. Well, perhaps that is true. I once knew a man who was bitten in the lobe of the ear, and lived. But he had a sharp knife. And after all, part of an ear is not so much to sacrifice, when life itself is in hazard.

The conechos, Senor, which dwell in the slimy crevices of this old Madred’Oro Mine below the wettest cellars of Croszchen Pahna, are of a larger variety than those one finds feeding on bananas. Also they are whitish-pink in color, and sightless. They do not need the eyes. They leap surely through the dark at what they wish to bite. . . .

The way down as far as the Room of Craters is not far, as miles are measured up here in the blessed sunshine. Perhaps there was a day when the bearded Spaniards walked safely enough from the broken shaft mouth, down the steepslanted manways, helped here and there by rough ladders, in no more than one hour.

I know not if the way remains passable now. But if it is no worse than it was the day those two young Americanos and I descended to the Room of Craters, it will take three active, daring men more than ten times that space of time.

Roped to each other, we crawled and slid down the terrible passages. I led, and carried in my left hand a long and heavy broom of twigs bound with wire. With this I struck ahead before I placed

my foot — or cleared a way of vipers and scorpions before lying down and wriggling feet foremost through narrow, low apertures where time and again my coming was the signal for a fall of wet, rotten rock.

I call to your attention, Senor, that the way to enter such unknown passages always is feet first. Then if there are creatures waiting unseen to strike or leap at one from the side, they are apt to waste their venom on the heavy boots, or on the thighs which are wrapped in many thicknesses of paper, under the heavy trousers.

Also it is easier to withdraw, if a serious slide occurs.

Senor Jim, who followed me, carried a strong lantern. Another, smaller one for my use in the Room of Craters was attached to his belt, near the taut rope. Senor Lester, who came last, bore a miner’s pick, for use in breaking through walled-up passages.

Once I was knocked flat and pinned down by a flake of rock like a sheet of slate, which fell before I even touched it; jarred free, no doubt, by the vibrations of our footsteps.

With the pick, however, Senor Jim quickly released me. And while he was working there I heard him strike swiftly once, twice, thrice with the pick, though not on the rock which held me.

Then he cursed, and his voice held a note of wonderment.

"Fastest thing I ever saw!” he muttered; while behind him Senor Lester whimpered aloud. I knew he had viewed some frightful thing, and had failed to kill it with the pick.

That was the first of the sickly-white spiders, the conechos. I had warned the two young men, of course; but until one sees those horrible, sightless, hairy monsters, and learns how they can leap and dodge — even a swift bullet, some mainTHE PLACE OF HAIRY DEATH


tain! — there can be no understanding of the terror they inspire in men.

From then on ^^conechos, which never appear near the surface, became more numerous. It was necessary for us to shout, and to hurl small rocks ahead of us, to drive them into their crevices. Otherwise they might leap at us. And such is the weird soundless telegraphy of such creatures, that if any living thing is bitten by a spider, all the other spiders know it instantly, and come. Whatever the living thing may be, it is buried tinder an avalanche of horrid albino hunger.

1 0NG before we reached the Room ot > Craters, Senor Lester — the weak one — was exhausted. He was a shivering wreck from terror, the foul air, and the heat, and was pleading with Senor Jim to go back.

The other one would not have it. He kept mocking the dangers, laughing shortly — and how soon that brave laugh was to be stilled! But Senor Lester got to stumbling; weeping as he staggered or crawled after us. He dropped the pick, and neither of us knew, until we reached a place where the enlargement of an opening had to be done. Then we had to retrace many weary steps to secure the tool.

At last we reached the Room of Craters, where a fire may be built from the old logs which were used by the Indian slaves in pushing the ore mill. There was comparative safety, and we rested, while Senor Jim did all he could to revive the courage of his companion.

I could have told him it was of no use; but in those days I too was young, and did not feel it my place to advise. Senor Lester quieted; but every minute or two his whole thin frame would be racked by a fit of shuddering. I was glad I had made it very plain I would go no farther.

but would wait for them here. Senor Jim tried every inducement, but I held firm. The few pesos I had earned outright were enough. I did not care much whether or not they found gold. The one time before I had come this far, I had penetrated a few dozen yards farther, into a narrow passage I deemed might be the one leading to the treasure room. And I knew what that passage contained — white, hairy death!

So I huddled over my fire of punk logs, ate food from the small pack I carried, slept, and waited through the weary hours. I thought hideous things, though none was worse than reality. My knowledge of what happened, you understand, Senor, comes in great part from the ravings of a man to which I was forced to listen.

In the narrow, slide-obstructed passage which led on, those two young ones fought their way. How Senor Jim ever made the other follow as far as he did, is not for me to guess. But struggle on they did; and at length they reached a blank ending of the passage — a place where centuries before, the Spaniards had walled in their treasure, and with it the human slaves who had dug, ground and carried the ore and gold.

There was one small hole pierced in this wall. Quien sabe? Perhaps the prisoners broke through that much. It is likely that the dons would have a swordsman waiting outside as a guard, ready to chop off the groping arms of those dying desperate ones.

But while Senor Lester sank on the rock floor, too spent now to help, Senor Jim set at the wall with the pick. In time, by dint of much sweat, and many pauses in which he used the broom to brush aside the spiders, which were numerous at this low level, he had broken



in a hole large enough so that a man could crawl through feet first.

He flashed the lantern into the chamber which opened beyond the wall. It was the treasure house!

His yell at sight of the piles of gold, long since burst from their hide sacks and spilled together, aroused Senor Lester, who was able to stagger to his feet and look. They saw, besides the great mountain of gold, white traceries on the floor which might once have been the moldered human bones of the imprisoned slaves. Yes, it was the storehouse of treasure!

Frantically then, forgetting his caution which had brought him and his companion farther than any other white man, Senor Jim wriggled into the hole he had made. He would have got through, too — only there was a slight movement of the rock, just a subsidence of perhaps six inches.

It squeezed him at the waist! It held him horizontal and helpless, two feet from the rode floor!

Senor Lester cried out in weak terror, but Senor Jim did not lose his head.

’'You’ll have to break me out — quick!” he commanded. “It’s slowly squeezing the insides out of me! Quick, the pick! Hit it right up above me — there!” He nodded with his head, both arms being pinioned so that he could not point.

Whimpering, whining, almost unable to lift the pick, the other tried to obey. But that was when the first hairy thing fell or leaped from above. It landed squarely on Senor Jim’s upturned face. He screeched with horror — then with pain and realization that this was the end.

Almost before the sound had left his whitening lips, the others came, leaping, bounding, from the roof, along the walls, from the floor. The albino horde!

And from Senor Lester fled the last

vestige of manhood. Jerking back on the rope which held him to his doomed companion, he sawed at it with his knife.

When it broke he fled, screaming himself to drown the awful, smothering sounds from the end of the passage. . . .

T hat is not quite all, Senor. I heard the ghastly tale, though not until I had slept safely many hours, there in the Room of Many Craters. The young Americano had taken at least seven or eight hours to fight his way back to me. There was no hope for the other.

I brought Senor Lester up into the blessed daylight, though because of his complete collapse we were a whole day and night on the way.

Until his father could come from the United States, I cared for the young man, who could not leave his bed. A part of his mind had gone, it seemed, and he raved about the death of his friend, saying the same things over and over. I was very glad to surrender Senor Lester to his saddened father, who took his boy home where good doctors could care for him.

It was almost a year later when a scarecrow came to my hut. It was Senor Lester, dressed now in rags, but with a sheaf of money with which he tried to bribe me to descend with him again into the old mine!

Valgame Dios! I would not have gone then for a million million dollars, Americano gold! The fear was too lately on me. So then he threw back his head, his voice shaking, and said:

“Then I must go alone! I can never rest till I bring up Jim’s body! I — I was a coward! I am a coward!”

“Well, that is the truth,” I admitted, “but there are many cowards. What difference can it make now?”

But he was resolute — in words. In acTHE PLACE OF HAIRY DEATH


tions, not so resolute. He had made up his mind to go again, this time alone; but days dragged by. He lived in my hut. He jumped eacli time a gamecock crowed, every time a door was closed. He was a nervous shadow, not even as strong as he had been when I saw him first. He had escaped from a sanatorium up north, and come back here secretly, I discovered. I decided to send a message to his father. When that message did go it was somewhat different from what I intended.

I was a bachelor then, Sehor. The little spiders, the malichos, spun their webs where they would on the rafters of my hut. I did not care. The mice played around freely at night; for my striped cat was old and fat, sleeping much and doing little.

To keep the young Amerkand from those sudd«i screeching fits, though, I had to climb up with a broom and wipe away the spider webs. They would build new ones. It did not matter.

“I can’t stand them!” he would wail, shuddering all over. I thought to myself

then there was little danger he ever would go again into the Madre d’Oro Mine. And that was true. He never went again.

That very night as I slept in my blankets on the floor, I was awakened suddenly. Senor Lester had leapt up, screaming as I hope I never hear another man or woman scream! He jiunped around. I could not quiet him. I made a light hurriedly, hearing him fall to the floor.

He was stiffening then, head arched back.

"It bit me! I killed it!” he shrieked. Then came a final shudder, and he went limp — dead!

Now that was too fast even for the bite of a great pit-viper. I tried to find what had killed him. His two hands had been clenched together, but now in death they relaxed. I drew them apart. I knew the truth, and my heart went faint within me. He had been dreaming of the hairy

[THE END]

============================================================
TO A BULLET-PIERCED SKULL ALFRED I
by Tooke
============================================================
spiders, when — —

Crushed between the palms of his thin, nervous hands, was the dead body of a small mouse!

o a Bullet-Pierced Skull

By ALFRED I. TOOKE

An empty skull! But once, no doubt, a vast Amount of knowledge into you was passed, And stored for use whenever you required; But when a bullet into you was fired.

All of those years of hoarded knowledge fled In one split second, as you tumbled, dead. Only the knowledge parted with lived on. What you had hoarded, in a flash was gone.

Life is like that! It’s those who give the most.

Who may be truly said to live the most;


[THE END]

============================================================
THE SOLITARY HUNTERS (PART 2) DAVID H
by Keller
============================================================
While those who hoard their knowledge find life dull, And leave behind nought but an empty skull.

"The wusp wtis off through the ear, the convict hugged securely to her”

olitary Hunters

By DAVID H. KELLER

'A powerful story of gigantic insects and a blood -freezing horror that awaited the doomed men who were sent as prisoners into the crater of an extinct volcano

The Story Thus Far

P ROFESSOR KINGSTON, entomologist, answers an advertisement in the Times, and finds that the man who is offering employment is Serpohs,

for many years leader of tlie underworld. The professor, on learning that he is to kill a man, declines the position, till he is shown some airplane pictures that Serpolis has taken of Rose Crater. After looking at these he determines to go to Rose

THE SOLITARY HUNTERS


Crater at any cost. When Serpolis adds that his daughter went there six years before and shows Kingston her picture, the young man is positive that he should accept the position.

He takes a trip to Washington and learns there that Rose Crater is a Federal prison, created as a last resort to break up crime in the United States. It is owned by the multi-millionaire, Hamford James, who offered it to the Government, free of cost, provided he be allowed to run it as he pleased, without any investigation by the Government. A maximum of one thousand male prisoners are admitted every year, for the duration of their life. Up to this time no convict has ever escaped from this prison.

Kingston returns to New York and takes an apartment in the Bronx. He has another interview with Serpolis, following which he has offers of very lucrative positions and also veiled threats if he does not accept and leave the employ of the gangster. Realizing the danger of his position, he leaves by plane for London to consult tlie famous entomologist, Spartins, in regard to the pictures of Rose Crater. Arriving in London, he reads of his own death in the crash of a plane owned by Serpolis. This has been cleverly arranged by the gangster to allow the professor to continue his work under the name of Prince.

After great difficulty Prince obtains an interview with Spartins. The old entomologist doubts the truth of the pictures but gives the young professor some very valuable advice.

Back in New York events move rapidly. A state judge is killed and Prince is arrested for the crime. A revolver, cocain and blood money are found in his pockets. As a result, he is given a speedy trial and sentenced to Rose Crater, at which place he arrives on the first of

April with nine hundred and ninety-nine other criminals. They are given directions and enter Rose Crater through a long one-way tunnel. Prince and a Yale graduate become acquainted and lead the convicts through this tunnel into the crater.

Once inside, they are astonished to find a large house on one side of the crater. There are a large number of peculiarshaped huts, arranged in rows, and be- ^ tween these are rows of barrels which show they have been used in the past to hold Louisiana sirup. There arc no signs of the prisoners admitted in former years; in fact, the entire crater seems to be devoid of any life except for the thousand convicts.

9. The Huts Are Filled

S LOWLY the men began to seep through the tunnel. No doubt the good old Yale man was going to see them through and be the last to come through Hell Gate. The convicts were a little bewildered; they had expected solitary confinement in tlie usual prison; but they found comparative liberty and little of the conventional penal atmosphere. They could go as they pleased, and stop when the/ wanted to. There was not a word said in regard to work, and there were no signs of any factories. The confining walls of the crater were so far apart that it was hard for the men to realize that they were prisoners. It was only when they glanced upward and saw the tremendous heights the crater reached that they had special reason for despair.

As far as their housing was concerned the place was a democracy. Every hut was just like every other hut. The furnishings were all alike: a simple bed, a chair and a table. If two men wanted to become pals, there was nothing against a



bed and a chair being carried from another hut and even a request for double rations being sent down the food-tube. In each hut there was a book-shelf with three books, the same three books in every instance: A Bible, a catalogue of a prominent mail order house, and a book by Fabre, the French naturalist. In most huts the catalogue was worn to tatters while the other two books were as good as new. On the door was a framed direction in regard to the securing of the two daily meals. The mechanism was simple. If a food-can was sent down in the proper manner through the tube, within an hour it would come back, filled with the next meal, but food was not supplied more than twice in the twenty-four hours. Water was sent with the food, otherwise there was no water available. Evidently the convicts were not supposed to wash.

There were no lights in the hut, and, as far as I could seCj no heating arrangenaents of any kind. The entire provision for the care of the convicts seemed to be remarkably crude. It provided for selfservice, self-government and self-amusement. The Yale man, who accidentally met me a short time before sundown, mentioned these matters.

"From the standpoint of a psychologist, how long do you think it Will take for one man to be boss here?” he asked me.

"Just as long as it will take for the strongest man to find Out that he is the strongest,” I suggested.

"Mentally the strongest, or physically?”

"A combination of both. While they are finding it out, there is going to be a lot of trouble. Some of these men have been in a little cell for months. This semi-liberty is going to make them intoxicated, and if they don’t start fighting

among themselves just as soon as the novelty wears off, I am very much mistaken. I thought for a few minutes that the best place for us would be off by ourselves somewhere, but perhaps that might make us too conspicuous. It might be better to be in the middle of everything.”

We finally decided to take a hut on the outer row, the far end. By the time we had the two beds and chair in it, it looked a little comfortable. As far as we could judge, the hut had never been occupied. At least, the catalogue was in good condition, though eight years old. I tested the door and found that it could be securely fastened on the inside.

"Lots of odd things about this prison,” I commented to the Yale man. "First one I ever saw where the prisoners could lock themselves in from the inside of the cell instead of being locked in from the outside.”

"Yes. It is a singular commentary on out modern civilization,” the man answeredi "And it is rather strange to find you here.”

"You mean because I am a college graduate? That’s nothing. Lots of us go wrong. I never questioned your being a Yale man, and never even asked why you were here. Perhaps I had better introduce myself. I Was sent here under the alias of Prince. For ten thousand dollars I pepped up on cocain and filled a New York judge full of lead. Caught in the act with the revolver in my hand and the money and the cocain in my pocket. A most revolting crime; so here I am. How about that?”

"I have a right to my own opinion. Of course, you are here. I admit that, and of course you were tried and sentenced and all that. But as to your guilt? That is not worrying me. What I want to know is this: whom do you represent?”

THE SOLITARY HUNTERS


I laughed at him as became a Yankee and asked:

"Whom do you represent?”

"Check and double check. I have found out what I wanted to know. One thing more. Are we going to work togetlier or separately?”

"That is hard to ansv/er. But let me ask you a question. Have you any inside information about this place? Any suspicions? Any plans of protecting yourself? Do you know what to protect yourself against?”

"Collectively I will answer no to all these questions.”

"Then let me give you some advice. We do not know how much food v/ill be served the two of us. We will do as told to and send our names and the number of the hut down the food-tube. From then on, if what that printed form says is true, we will get rations for two men twice a day. We will eat only what we absolutely have to, and save the rest. That may enable you to live longer than the rest, provided you stay inside the hut.”

"How about you?” ,

"I am going out, but you need not worry about that. Perhaps I am protected. But if what I think is true, and I believe it is, you are in a damn tight place.”

"No one to blame but myself,” he said, cheerfully.

"Maybe that is true, but it is not going to help you.

W E WERE both tired, and it did not take long for us to go to sleep. The hut was either sound-proof or the rest of the convicts were as tired as we were, for the place was unusually quiet. The next morning we followed instructions, took the metal canister off the bookshelf, hunted up the pencil, which was

just where it was said to be, wrote our names on the card, put it inside the canister, placed it in the food-tube and pulled a trigger.

Fifteen minutes later the canister came back through the tube. We opened it eagerly. Beans, bread, and a pint of water apiece. We lost no time eating it. Only when it was all gone did I remember my advice of the evening before.

"We should have saved some!” I cried.

“If we had, we would have gone hungry,” answered the Yale man. "I am willing to undergo unusual hardships, but I do not want to go hungry. I have always taken particular pride in my body, and I want it in fit shape to serve me when I call on it to do so.”

"What is your name?” I asked him, rather sharply.

"Call me King. That tops your Prince. Both are lies, but both will serve. But I am here under that name; so that will have to serve.”

“I knew you were here under the name of King,” I reminded him. "That was the name we sent down in the food canister, but, somehow, I wanted your real name. You remind me of some one I know rather well, and, somehow, I was hoping that he v/as a relative of yours. He told me he was a college graduate.”

"What place?” asked King sharply.

"He never told me that.”

Later on in the day he proposed that we take a walk. We did, over to the other side of the crater.

"Looks as though there had been some kind of mining going on here,” remarked King. "Look at all those tunnels into the side there and all that trash at the entrance of each tunnel.”

"I am not a geologist,” I answered, "but there is something of interest there. The sides of this crater are of some very hard stone. The old volcano tore through



and then nicely filled in all the crevices with lava. The weather of ages has smoothed those sides till they are like glass. Then, probably in the old age of the volcano, it threw up a lot of hot, boiling mud and filled the entire bottom with just plain sand and dirt. It is into that kind of soil those tunnels have been bored. See how round and smooth they are and the kind of stuff that was taken out. Four hundred feet higher it would have taken diamond drills and dynamite to make a hole like that, but in that dry mud a man could almost dig a hole with his hands.”

"That may explain where all the convicts have gone,” commented the Yale man. "Of course, you have noticed that there are none here except this year’s vintage. Perhaps they tried to tunnel through, got so far, were poisoned by some gas and died in the holes they dug.”

"For the time being,” I laughed, "your guess is as good as mine. I think that you are right about part of it. They probably died in the holes, but I do not think they dug them.”

W E ARRANGED to get an early start the next day and walk around the circumference of the crater. There was only one place where there were any signs of volcanic activity. On the extreme edge of the circle, opposite the large house, there was a circuluar hole in the floor of the crater, at least thirty feet in diameter and no telling how deep. A smell of sulfur came from the opening. I was not interested in this but I was in the tracks leading to it from all parts of the crater. I asked King his opinion.

"Tractors,” he commented, "and each tractor dragging something after it and then throwing it down the hole.” "Dragging men? Cemetery?”

"No. Too big for men, not shaped right. Something else.”

One more part to the crossword puzzle I was trying to solve. Not entirely clear but partly so.

Neither of us referred to the large house on one side of the crater. .We heard the other convicts commenting on it, even suggesting that an effort be made to enter it. No one asked our opinion of such an idea; so we kept quiet. Me! I just knew that no convict or no thousand convicts, or ten thousand, for that matter, could get into that place alive. The man who had found this place, organized it, and run it for all these years was no fool. He knew the type of men the nation was sending to him. He knew what they were and no doubt had planned in a hundred ways to protect himself and his home from them. For I was convinced that he lived in the big house, lived there and directed the activities of all of Rose Crater there. No use trying to get in there after him. But it might be worth while to wait till he came out.

Of course, he would not come out while the convicts were there; if they even suspected who he was, they would tear him to little bits with their hands. He knew that. He was not a fool. So any investigation I should have to make of him would have to be after he came out: and he would not do that till the convicts were gone. Well, I guessed they would go. They had gone in all the other years.

King was unusually gloomy the night after we discovered the hole in the floor of the crater.

"I should like to see Sherlock Holmes tackle this job,” he said.

"How about Taine of San Francisco?” I countered.

T hat very night, in the darkness, some of the men came to call on us. Not very pleasant, that kind of visitors,

W. T.— 6

THE SOLITARY HUNTERS


and I was against opening the door, but King didn’t know what fear was; so he walked out and cried,

"What do you boys want?”

"We want you to go with us,” explained a voice. "We have had our eye on you, and we want you with us.”

"What are you going to do?”

"Going up to the Big House, and kill those we find there. That is the way to get out of here. The people up there know the secret.”

King laughed.

"Do you think they are going to tell you? Or let you get near them? This prison has run for some years, and I guess the house has been there all the time and the same man in it. Do you think he is going to sit there and let you come and kill him? Do you think that the man who had brains enough to plan all this, and work out every detail, is foolish enough to let you walk into his house and kill him?”

They said they were going to try it; so we said good-night to them and went to bed. The next morning we walked over by the Big House, and there on the sand were ten bodies. We went and examined them and they had not a mark on them, no blood or wound of any kind. King straightened up and looked at the silent house, the Big House by the side of the crater.

"They ought to have known better,” he said.

"At that, they had an easy death. Perhaps they are better off.”

During the day little groups of curious convicts came over to look at the bodies. No attempt was made to bury them.

But after that no more attempts were made to raid and loot the Big House; at least, not till the men became desperate.

W. T.— 7

10. A Real King

B y the middle of April the convicts were showing their real natures. Between them they were possessed of every vice ever known to the human race. To aid them there was food, of good quality and in fair amount, a modified form of liberty, absolutely no restrictions of any form on their conduct. To hinder them, there was neither tobacco, liquor nor women.

A thousand tigers in such an environment might have finally adjusted themselves. These human tigers only irritated themselves and each other. It seemed that the worst part of our life was the absence of anything definite to do. There was intense need of a social worker, an occupational therapist, to teach these men how to pass the time. A man could not pass the daylight hours, day after day, just looking at a mail order catalogue!

So they started to annoy one another, and from there it went to teasing and tormenting the weaker ones. Childish things, such as throwing sand in their faces, or spoiling their food, and finally devilish things, sitting on a man and pulling out his hair, three or four at a time.

Gangs began to form. Lines were drawn and the rest of the population told to stay on the other side or risk being killed. The strongest gangs raided the weaker, especially at mealtime, thus securing a double quantity of food. Vice of every kind began to show its multiformed, horrible head, first at night and then openly, on the streets, in broad daylight.

King told me his opinion of it,

"The place is going to the dogs!” "Correct. But what can you expect?” "There ought to be some kind of government. Some rules.”



"Don’t take it so serious, King,” I advised. "They are dogs and they have just returned to their vomit. Nothing can help them; so why try?”

"I know a man,” he said, "who if he were here would be their boss in a day.”

"I do, too. But suppose he were their boss? What kind of a racket would he run here?”

"Racket? I was not thinking of a racket. What I had in mind was just a decent society of some kind.”

I could not help laughing.

"What are you?” I asked between my chuckles. "A philanthropist? A sociologist? A new Moses, ready to give these wanderers a new code, a novel ten commandments? They have broken every law of God and man they ever heard of. I believe from what I saw today that they are inventing new laws to break and new vices to whip their jaded senses. What can you do? What can any one do? And what is the use of doing?”

I was in earnest by this time.

"Listen to me. King. You seem to be a decent chap, and I want to save you if I can. Don’t get mixed up in this matter. Use all your brains to save your own life. I believe that all these rats are going to be dead in a little while; perhaps we shall be dead too if we are not clever enough to stay alive. We have to think fast. The blow may come at any time.”

"What blow? What are you thinking about?”

"Oh! The men die every year. You know that. They are gone. And whatever happened to them is bound to happen to us. Are you saving your food? Is there any way you can get more? You had better. Time may come when the food is going to stop.”

He came over to me and placed a hand on my shoulder. His face was pathetic in its wistfulness.

"I wish I could trust you. Prince. You know and I know that we are not like the rest. Perhaps if we were honest with each other, and became real allies, something might be done.”

I was tempted to tell him all right then. In another minute we would have been exchanging confidences. But the time was not ripe. Near our hut we heard the noise of the wolf-pack hunting, jeers, yells, hysterical laughter, and above all the sound of men in fear of their lives, high-pitched cries of torment.

"Let’s look into this,” suggested King.

"Better stay where we are. What can we do against that pack?”

So we went out and joined the mob on the edge of the milling mass. One of the men near us explained it to us,

"We guys were needing sport. We wanted to play football and we didn’t have no balls. So we buried five pimps up to their necks in the sand and started to kick their bloody coconuts, and after we kicked so long the blasted things come off.”

We saw a head and then anotlier shoot through the air, accompanied by the poppop of breaking bones. Blood-crazed men were trying to make touchdowns, while equally frenzied men were trying to snatch the human footballs from their grasp. On one side tireless diggers were making holes to bury new victims in.

K ing broke through the ring and threw . first one digger and then another backward from his prey.

"Stop!” he said. Just one cold word. A short, broad-shouldered man, with a face like a monkey, walked up to him. "What-hell! Who’s you?”

"I am the new boss.”

The ape started to laugh. He thumbed his nose at King, and then turned to the pack.

THE SOLITARY HUNTERS


"Dis guy dinks he’s de boss.”

'They roared like a lot of laughing hyenas.

"Let’s have a showdown,” added the ape.

I jumped into the ring alongside of the King,

"Fair play, boys! I don’t know this guy very well, but he looks to me like a fighter. Go at him one at a time and the best man wins. Handsome Charlie here thinks he is some scrapper; so let him start.”

My suggestion met with a favorable reception. Here were men whose ancestors had roared their delight at the Roman circus, the bare-fisted boxing matches of Merry England. They loved to see a fight, though many of them did not care personally for that kind of a struggle themselves. Now, if it came to taking a few whiffs of cocain or shots of cheap brandy and then going and shooting a man in the back for ten dollars, they were right at home.

"What rules?” asked the man who was going to second the ape.

"Rules?” I sneered. "Rules in Hell? Anything goes, and God help the man who gets down.”

Walking over, I whispered to the King,

"Can you make the bluflf good?”

He simply smiled.

'Then hit them once and hit them hard,” I advised.

I knew that the man was built like a Greek god, but I never thought he had such a torso as he had. Stripped to the waist, his skin was like satin, his hair blond and curly like a woman’s, and his muscles were long and smooth. Not a bunch anywhere on his arms or back.

The ape was ugly as an imp from Hell, but he was no coward. He walked right into oblivion. The King hit him once.

just once, on the point of the chin, and the man dropped as though a bullet had blasted through his brain. If his jawbone had broken, his mind would have been saved, but the bone held, and the man was never able to talk from that minute and he walked with a limp for the rest of his short life.

"That’s Number one,” I cried. "Next man!”

It really was not exciting. The next nine men met the same fate. Not all were hit on the chin, but only one blow was used on each opponent.

"How do you feel. King?” I asked, as they dragged out the tenth.

"Fair, except for my hands. Hard to fight with bare fists.”

Now there came a pause. It was rather hard to find some one to serve as the next victim. The gang was broken into little groups, talking the matter over, and doing a lot of cursing in our direction. Through the jargon of the underworld, we could hear a demand for the Brainless Wonder.

At last he decided to satisfy that demand. His was a new face, and I could not place him at first. Then it dawned on me. The foreign element in the camp had formed a gang and kept rather close to themselves. This man was evidently their leader.

What dark pit had spawned him? Certainly he had in him the combined blood of Moor, Chinaman, Negro and Tartar. His forehead shot back from his nose, microcephalic, and it was this anatomical peculiarity that must have given him the alias of the Brainless Wonder.

His arms were long, dangling; they reached his knees.

"Don’t let him hug you. King. Keep away from him.”

"And that is good advice, old man,” whispered the King, smiling.



They advanced toward each other, and then the Brainless Wonder turned his back and lashed out his right leg. Had the heavy-booted foot hit the target, the temple. King’s skull would have been crushed in like an egg-shell. Fortunately, with a skill born of long experience in the ring, he had dodged the flying missile and received only a glancing blow on the chest.

Without a split second’s pause he hurled himself on the back of the Brainless Wonder. It was the Tiger hurling himself on the Hyena. And then, with his arm under the throat, the other hand on the right ankle and his knees in the small of the back, he started to bend the man.

I saw then what I had never expected to see: a college man, with the best culture of the present century, take a wild animal and break his back. Around me came the sharp hiss of deeply drawn breath. That was all, not another sound, and then a sharp crack. We all knew what the sound meant, and the dying man on the sand knew better than any of them.

The King stood up straight. He was unmarked save for the crimson bootmark on his side. He was not even breathing deeply. Gradually he started to smile.

"Next?” he asked.

Not a man moved. He called for a table. It was brought him.

Up on top of it, with the whole camp listening to him, he made his first and last address.

"I am the new boss. If any man wants the job, he knows how to get it. We are here and it looks as though we were going to stay here, and there is not going to be any more rough stuff like playing football with men’s heads. Understand? Any time any of you men don’t suit me,

I am going to tame you, as I did the Brainless Wonder. If there is anything you are not sure of, you come and ask me first before you do it. Every day I want you to bring me the food of this dying man. He won’t need it after today, and I do. And bring me some water, right away, now. You can’t handle dirt without soiling your hands.”

Right there, on the table, he took the precious water and washed himself. The pack knew the new boss.

11. The Sugar Barrels Fill

A ccording to our tally it was the first k. of May. Life in Rose Crater was very much the same, day by day. King was occupied with his affairs as the new boss, while I spent several days invect'gating the quarry holes at the other side of the crater. They were big enough to walk upright in, and, though it was dark and I had no light, the sides were smooth enough and the floor level enough to make it possible to walk in some distance without danger. It was even possible to go into the first of the side galleries, and I found there what I expected to. By putting all my force into it I was even able to drag my find out to the open. Leaving it there, I went to bring King and show it to him, but before I could do so the pack had found my find and gruesomely torn it to pieces, tossed the parts to the four winds and gone on, just like a gang of hoodlum children.- So there was nothing to show King after all.

On our way back from the reg’on of the quarry holes we passed a number of barrels. I looked into one and found it half-full of liquid, brown and sticky. My tasting it showed me that it was filling with cane sirup. The other barrels were the same.

When I called King’s attention to it, he expressed surprize.

THE SOLITARY HUNTERS


"Evidently the boys are going to be sweetened up.”

"Yes, there is nothing to prevent them from drinking all of it they want to. It is a good food, but they will soon tire of it.”

"What is the idea?”

"Not sure, but believe they are just substitutes for flowers.”

King laughed at that.

"You mean that a man who thought out all the details for this place would go to the trouble to feed a lot of insects?”

"That’s it. No flowers here. If he wants to attract insects, he has to feed them, and most insects live on sugar.”

"I haven’t seen anything except those cursed ants.”

"He evidently expects some. Sugar barrels dry and empty part of the year. First of May he fills the barrels up. Must be expecting something.”

"But there are hundreds of those barrels, regular hogsheads.”

"He must expect lots of insects.”

That night I decided to tell him the story. Any way he reacted to it I would have a friend and an ally. It was near tlie point when I had to confide in some one, and it seemed to me that we had too many things in common to remain suspicious of each other any longer.

He listened to me tell the story. I did not try to hide anything, told it all from the time I answered the advertisement up to the time I met him at the first of the rat-traps in the tunnel. I have no way of telling how long I talked, but he did not interrupt me once, not even when I told him about Happy, little Joan. I ended with,

"Of course, I am here primarily because I am an entomologist, but my second big reason is the little girl. Serpolis showed me her picture and there was something about her that appealed to me.

I have not the least reason to think that she is still alive, but if she is, she is in the big house. I think that I am going to find out before I finish. In fact, I have to find out to finish the job. Serpolis has to know. He said it was the uncertainty of the whole thing that was killing him.”

"You think that you are right in your surmises?”

"Practically sure of it. King. Everything is fitting together. For example, here are the sugar barrels. And then that skeleton I pulled out, the one I wanted you to see. Of course, it is all unbelievable. Spartins said it was not true, but at tlie same time he admitted there were many interesting points to my story. And I am not sure that he knew about the large number of beef cattle that were shipped to the crater every year, before the convicts came. Now, if I could find a skeleton of a steer.”

"It’s all wrong,” argued King. "I mean the civilization that permits the existence of such a place is all wrong. Of course, I admit that there may be a thousand criminals every year who are bad enough to warrant their being sent to solitary confinement, but to simply send them into a place like this without any government supervision and in the power of one man, makes for an intolerable situation.”

"No doubt you are right, but it won’t do any good to talk about it just now; and it won’t help us any out of the situation we are facing, which, to my viewpoint, is just about as dangerous as it can be. How much food have you in reserve?”

"Enough to last the two of us for a month.”

'"That will be enough to last you for twice that long. You may have to depend on the sirup for water! Not so bad. The specific gravity is about 1034. May nauseate you, but it will get you by.”



"How about yourself?”

"I don’t know. I am going to see the thing through when the time comes. I have protection; just how well it will work is a question, but one of us has to go through with it and come out alive, if it is at all possible to do so. If little Joan is still here, we have to do something to get her out.”

The King frowned,

"The poor little girl must have had a hard time of it. It might have been better for her to have died right away than live on at the big house. You understand that I am as much interested in her as you are, and perhaps more so.”

"How’s that?”

"Easy enough. She is my sister,”

12. King Tells His Story

HAT explains it,” I exclaimed. "What?”

"Your resemblance to your father, Serpolis.”

"I guess there is a family resemblance. Of course, I have been on my own for a long time. In fact, I have not seen Dad for ages. How was he when you saw him last?”

"Very well, except for his worry over Joan.”

"Never mentioned that he had a son?”

"No. Not once.”

"Not to be wondered at. Of course, I know now that he is, or was, the great American boss, as far as crime is concerned, but he took care that his two children should be shielded from that knowle'dge. All the time I was going through Yale I read of Serpolis and hated him as tlie great American Public Enemy, never once suspecting that he was my father. The little girl. Happy, was reared the same way. Simply knew her dad as a mythical all-good father, who sent her checks, whether she needed them

or not. I don’t know how they got Joan. In fact, I did not know they had her till she had been here three years. I think that she was framed in some way, found out that Dad’s life was the price of her release and refused to talk. Of course, she knew that Dad was mixed up in something bad, but she thought it was blackmail. I honestly do not believe she knows today that Serpolis is our father. I found it out three years ago. I had been away from the States on a four-year hunting-trip in South America. When I came back, Joan was gone. It cost a lot of money, but at last I met a man who told me that Serpolis could tell me all about Joan. Imagine it! I went to my own father and threatened to kill him if he did not tell me where Happy was. Was the old man a Roman? I’ll tell the world he was. And it ended up in my learning that he was my father and that Joan had been sent here some months after I sailed for South America. It was a shame the way I talked to him, but when we finished, we understood each other.

"He told me that he couldn’t help it. It wasn’t that the rival gang was any richer or more powerful than he was; it was simply the fact that the public psychology was against him. He had even gone to the President and asked for a pardon, but the President had told him that if he pardoned even one convict sentenced to Rose Crater, he would be impeached. Dad claims that he told him that the one he was asking pardon for was a woman, and urged the President to investigate it, but that statement was just thought to be one more bluff to kill time.

"From the year I graduated from Yale, I had spent all my time hunting big game; so I told Dad that I was going to keep on and never rest till the moment

THE SOLITARY HUNTERS


came when I found Happy, and, dead or alive, I was going to kill the man who was responsible for it. Here’s hoping that Hamford James will soon be a dead man.”

"You mean the owner of this prison?’

"None other. If Happy is dead, he killed her. If she is alive, he is keeping her a prisoner. Where? It must be at the big house. Where else could it be? Where else in the crater could he stay? I get frantic at times and make up my mind to go there and see.”

"Yes, and die r’ght away. What chance have you? None whatever.”

"I suppose so.”

"So you deliberately came here of your own accord?”

"That is right. Became a public enemy. Insulted the nation, spit at the judge. A tough guy who would stop at nothing. That’s me every day after they caught me. South Carolina was glad to add me to the list.”

"I guess there is nothing to do except to wait.”

"That’s all, but it is not easy waiting.”

13. The First Males Appear

1 SUGGESTED to King tliat we move our residence and take a hut on the far edge of the colony nearest in a bee-line to the ledge of sand with the many tunnels in it. Whenever anything happened, this would give us a chance to be among the first to see it. We moved on the night of the tenth of May. We had a surplus of provisions which we had hidden carefully in our mattresses, and I also suggested tirat we take a few extra catalogues.

Thus, on the tenth of May we were located in our new home and taking turns at guard duty. The hut we selected was just twenty feet from one of the sirup barrels, an idea that had come to me

during the long, wakeful hours of the night.

It was King who had the thrill of seeing the first one. He called to me in great excitement,

"Something is coming through the air from the tunnels. Prince, and it looks like a baby airplane.”

"Better come inside. King, and watch it through the glass door. I do not think it will be dangerous, but there is no use in taking any chances,” I advised.

As luck would have it, the airplane came right to the sirup barrel near our hut, and poised there, started to drink the sirup. It was an insect at least twelve feet long, rusty red velvet to the waist and below that gleaming black, marked with pale yellow crescents. 'The long legs were tancolored and tlie wings russet.

"Well?” asked the King, in harsh aspiration.

"That,” I whispered in reply, "is the male of the Sphecius Speciosus, otherwise known as the giant sand-wasp. John Burroughs, in 1879, devoted four pages of his Notes by the Way to this hornet. It is one of the digger wasps, and its favorite food is the cicada.

"Various naturalists have written about it; Gibson, Savin and Riley. Normally it grows to a length of one and a half inches. So this male is about one hundred times the usual size.”

"But look at that one suck in the sugar!” he said. " I thought you said they ate cicadas, or whatever you call them.”

"They do, at one time of their life. These males are harmless, just play boys of the insect world. I imderstand they come out about four days before the females. That gives us four days more of life.”

"You mean that they will eat just the sugar for four days?”

"Oh! The adults keep on eating the


0 Jo

sugar. Look, there comes another, and another! Big birds, aren’t they? They won’t eat us; but it’s death just the same, and a rather horrible form of death, too.

1 wonder what the boys are thinking about. What difference does it make what they think? What difference does it make what any one thinks? The part that interests me is this man Hamford James. There is a man for your careful analysis. Of course, he was a rich man to start with, but he had an idea, and he follows up that idea, month by month, step by step, year by year. I don’t know his secret, but he succeeded in doing what every scientist has longed to do. Instead of a little laboratory, he uses a dead volcano. He has every minutest detail planned, and even goes so far as to take advantage of a national emergency to furnish him with supplies. I hate and despise the man, without even seeing him, but I have to admit that in many ways he is a wonder. He knows that some day an entomologist will start to investigate his work; so he creates college jobs and bureau positions for the entomologists as fast as they graduate. He — there comes another, and another— and, just as I expected, here come the convicts. They are worried over the new developments and want advice from their boss.”

E vidently the rats thought there was safety in numbers, for they came milling up in a close mass. Their fears were groundless, for the wasps paid no attention to them. All they seemed to want to do was to drink the cane sirup and dart here and there through the air. King and I came out of our hut. "What is the trouble, boys?” the boss asked.

"It’s these damn bugs, boss. We don’t know about them and we thought perhaps you did. What does it mean?” asked the spokesman.

"I don’t know, boys. But it seems these bugs live here and raise a new crop every year. These pretty fellows have just come out of their cocoons. They won’t hurt you, just eat the sugar.”

"Who is back of it all? What does it mean?”

"I suppose Hamford James is. He Is the man who owns the crater and takes care of us for the Government.”

'That kept them talking for a while, in little groups, just a few of the brighter ones doing the talking and the rest listening; and then one of them came to the front for another conference with the boss.

"This James man. Where does he live?”

"I don’t know, but I suppose in the big house.”

"He’s back of it?”

"Of everything in Rose Crater.”

"Suppose you go and see him.”

"No.”

"Why not?”

"No use.”

"Suppose we send some of the boys?”

"Go ahead, but it won’t do any good. You remember that one night ten men went to loot the big house and they were all killed.”

That mention of the lost ten set them mad. It must have been the madness of desperation rather than any love they had for their lost comrades. At any rate, they decided that things would be different in the daytime and picked out a committee of five to go and talk to Hamford James.

The boss and I walked by ourselves, a little to the left of the large group.

"I am not sure,” he whispered to me, "but I think there go five men who will soon be dead.”

"They all will be dead anyway in a

THE SOLITARY HUNTERS


few days, so why worry? Still, I am interested. First, because something like this has happened with each group of convicts, and second, because I may want to get into the big house myself some day and I want to know what the reason is for not doing it. I want some other man to show me. I do not feel like experimenting with Hamford James.”

The five men walked on, and on. Now they were within fifty feet of the big house. In fact, we were all near enough to it to make a rather close study of it. It looked a little like a castle; only it was made out of glass and seemed to have a lot of windows in it. There was no apparent reason why any one should not walk up and ring the front door bell. No sign of light or life; just a well-built, tenantless house.

Then, without warning, the five men who were to interview the owner of Rose Crater crumpled up and dropped in their tracks. They jerked a little, and a peculiar blue smoke came out of their mouths. Some of the audience started to run, but most of them stood their ground, looking appealingly to the boss.

"That is your answer,” he remarked. "The same thing would happen to any one or all of us. Electricity or something. Flamford James is too smart a man to trust himself here in the crater with us boys without protection. Only thing I can 'advise you to do is to get back to your huts as soon as you can, go inside and lock the door and stay there.”

That is what they did, and without losing any time doing so. But the five dead men just kept still on the sand.

14. And Then Some- Ladies

W E WALKED back tO OUT hut, shut the door and locked it. The King started to investigate his mattress.

"Just as I thought,” he sighed. "One

of our friends suspected something and raided our reserve supply of food. All gone.”

"That is just too bad,” I commented. "Leaves us with nothing but the catalogues, and we won’t know how to use them till the killing begins. Wish we could get into the big house. If we got Hamford James in the right kind of a grip, he might be willing to come clean.”

"No use wishing that. We may get the man in our grip, but not in the big house, not now. Anyway, he is still feeding us — and what meals! The breakfast was wonderful.”

"There is a method in his madness. He wants us fat and succulent. Nourishing and appetizing titbits for his little ones. It nauseates me. Tonight the lights are shining on Broadway. People are praying, fighting, gambling and drinking by the millions, and here we are, destined to a sorrier fate than ever came to any thousand men.”

The supper that night was good — a Chinese dish, hot, nourishing and abundant. I locked the door and tried to sleep on a full stomach. Overhead was the constant drone of mighty wings.

Morning came at last. Our pets were still around the sugar barrels. And the men were still in their huts.

I suggested to King that we take the catalogues and arrange some kind of a harness to protect the back of our necks. Three books on top of one another would stop a bullet.

"Bet it works!” cried King. He was always an optimistic, cheerful fellow. "I have been watching them drink the sirup, and their stinger seems to be rather soft and flexible. Bet they couldn’t bore through one of these catalogues, let alone three of them.”

I had to laugh at him.


WEHID TALES

"You may be a big game hunter, but you are a bum entomologist.”

"Why?”

"Because they don’t sting with that end, and these males don’t sting much with either end. It is the female that gives the death blow, and so far J have not seen one.”

But the very next day I saw the first lady of the tribe, quite similar in coloring and shape, but at least a third larger. She went through the air to the nearest sugar barrel with an assurance and arrogance that told only too well of her confidence and power. Several males tried to court her, but when she hurled her powerful body at them, they turned tail and fled in a most unmasculine and precipitous manner.

The darting males gathered in little groups.

"Mating season is on,” I cried to King. "Here come the brides, and they are right pretty little love-mates at that, are they not? They will have their little season of love-making, and then the males will die while the females start in to housekeeping; and when their houses are finished, then the fun will begin. The ancestors of this brood were given steers to feed their children with. These ladies will have no trouble at all with grown men. Not even with big men like you.”

The boss examined one of the ladies who had stopped to drink out of a sugar barrel near our hut.

"You say that they sting with the other end?”

"Yes.”

"Why, that dame could bore a hole through a battleship with that drill! I wish I had one of my elephant-guns with me.”

"Would be handy. Watch her.”

A male came up and stood in front of

the lady wasp. He took the paws of his front legs and rubbed the eyes of the female, twisting her head, first to one side and then to another. Then with his antennas he started to stroke her body with a slow caressing motion. It must have worked, for they soared up into the air for the mating flight.

"We are seemg something that no one has ever seen before,” exclaimed King.

"Wrong!” I corrected him. "Seven thousand, five hundred convicts have seen it before, and I have seen it a hundred times; only then the wasps were little things, about an inch and a half long. Now we are advancing with the story. The male mates and dies. His work is done, so why should he live on? The female starts in digging a new tunnel, and in that tunnel she lays her eggs; and that is where we come in, you and I and the other convicts.”

"But they can not get us, so long as we stay in the hut.”

"No. But are we going to stay?”

"I believe so.”

"I believe not. I have my own idea about that.”

"You mean?”

"Just that.”

"Of course, that would make it different. A man would take chances. It would all depend. If it were a fifty-.fifty gamble a man might try it.”

T he next morning my worst suspicions proved to be correct. The food-canister went down as usual with two names on the cards. In no time at all the canister came back, empty, save for a printed slip which read,

"From now on no more meals will be served inside the huts. Ample food will be available three times a day on the circular food hoist which can be found at the far end of the first row of huts.”

THE SOLITARY HUNTERS


"In other words,” I said to King, "right beyond our front door.”

15. Desperate Men

T he message was delivered at the same time to all the convicts. Not so many now. Five had been killed in the football game, and ten had died that night in front of the big house, and five more had died there with all of us watching, and the Brainless Wonder had died with a broken back, and that left nine hundred and seventy-nine. They had been fed in a special way for a month. Now they had to learn to get their food in a new way, and that was not so easy.

King and I walked over to the delivery platform. We had never noticed it before, covered as it was with the windblown dirt of months, but now it appeared as a polished circular table of metal, about twenty feet in diameter, enclosed in a cuff, one foot wide. It was all perfectly simple. The platform traveled up and down inside the cuff. It was loaded with food at the bottom, raised to the top, and dinner was served.

"I don’t like Hamford James at all,” I remarked, "but I have to admire his cleverness as an inventor. He also had a very good idea of the psychology of a hungry man.”

"You mean it is a trap?”

"Precisely. You note that he is handling a thousand desperate men with little or no help. He really is making them handle themselves. They are in these little huts, and it would take an army to drive them out — if they wanted to stay in. But they are going to want food; so he places the food, and no doubt it will be very nice food, right out in the open, on that platform. In order to get the food, they will have to leave their huts. And then buzzzzz.”

"I understand,” sighed King. "Especially the buzzzzz part. All the more reason why I want to lay my hands on that man.”

"I, too; but when I do, I don’t want any mistakes made. You know I came here to rescue Happy.”

"She is dead by this time,” he said gloomily.

"She may be, but so long as I don’t know it, I am going to think that she is alive.”

All that morning there was a gradual shifting of the convicts. The main details about the new way of serving the food had spread, and every one wanted to be as close as possible to the steel platform. Three and even four men were occupying the same hut. At high noon a whistle blew and in a little while up came the platform, loaded with bread, cheese and large galvanized cans of hot soup. There was considerable fighting before the food was distributed, and, no doubt, some of the men went hungry. King and I did not go over. We wanted to see what would happen. In no time at all the food was all gone and the men were back in their huts.

The wasps were rather plentiful by this time. More females. Evidently the males did not live long after mating. We could see their dead bodies, huge, unsightly and not at all good to smell, legs in the air, studding the sandy floor of the crater. The females kept flying around, drinking lots of the cane sirup but not offering to do any harm to the convictr..

Two more days passed and then the wasps disappeared.

“T ex’s take a walk. King,” I proposed.

-i— ^ "Tomorrow will be too late. I' want to add one more fact to the evidence we have already accumulated.”

"Where are you going?”

"Over to the sand-hills, where the old



tunnels are. Ought to be lots of life there by this time.”

"Safe?”

"Today, yes. Tomorrow, no. May be too bad today. But we must see what the females are doing. Better put yom: catalogue armor on over your neck.”

"Good advice, but I doubt if it would help any.”

We walked across the crater to the sand-hills on the other side. Even from the distance of a half-mile the dust of activity could be seen. Closer to the hill we saw the reason for all this dust. The digger wasps were making their tunnels.

One near us had just started in to dig. She made several experimental holes, then, sure of her location, started to work in earnest. Using her forefeet as rakes, she soon scraped out enough of the dirt to make a hole large enough to admit her body. Then she turned over, lay flat on her back and worked on the ceiling of the cave with her legs. From then on the building of the tunnel was rapid work. In no time at all she was out of sight, but the dirt was coming out by the bushel and her deep grunts told of the speed with which she was working. Every few minutes she came to dump dirt out of the mouth of the shaft, and finally, when the dirt made too large a pile at the mouth of the tunnel, she came out and threw ton after ton up into the air.

All the females were similarly occupied. Occasionally one would leave her work to get a meal of cane sirup, but the big thing in their lives seemed to be the making of the tunnel.

"This is why they are called solitary wasps,” I explained to King. "Each female has her own tunnel. The yellowjackets live in a community house, built of paper, but these digger wasps are very individualistic.”

"Is she making the tunnel to live in?"

"No. She is preparing a home for the next generation. She lays her eggs there, and then she dies. Her husband is already dead. In a few weeks these giant wasps will be dead unless Hamford James has a means of prolonging their lives, which I doubt. But in each of these tunnels will be the eggs of the next generation, which will finally become full-grown adult Sphecius.”

"Then for a while, nearly ten months, the only hope of survival these giants have is in the tunnels?”

"That’s it. Go on. Use dynamite on them, fill the tunnels with poison gases, destroy the new brood in any way you can imagine, but be sure it is practical before you start anything. In the meantime, let us go back to the hut. One or two of these tunnels look as though they are nearly through, and when that stage of the play is reached, it is going to be unfortunate for a man found outside a hut.”

W E WALKED rapidly back. In fact, we ran the last two hundred yards, filled with a sense of impending danger. One wasp was circling over the huts, several more were leaving the tunnels to join her. Out of breath, we reached our hut, tumbled in and locked the door.

Then the whistle blew for the noonday meal. We thought it best to go without that meal, but the rest of the convicts were hungry. The food was fairly good. When the platform reached the top they rushed over to it.

Then from the sky the twenty-foot female wasps, the giant Sphecius speciosus came down like airplanes making a nosedive. The events of the next minute came too quickly to watch each detail, but before the scattered group of convicts realized what had happened, the hunting wasps were oflf through the air, each with (Please turn to page 271)

^^tttchcraft of Ulua

By CLARK ASHTON SMITH

A bizarre and fantastic tale of the weird sendings of a wicked woman, and the luckless youth who became entangled in her toils

S ABMON the anchorite was famed no less for his piety than for his prophetic wisdom and knowledge of the dark art of sorcery. He had dwelt alone for two generations in a curious house on the rim of the northern desert of Tasuun: a house whose floor and walls were built from the large bones of dromedaries, and whose roof v/as a wattling composed of the smaller bones of wild dogs and men and hyenas. These ossuary relics, chosen for their whiteness and symmetry, were bound securely together with well-tanned thongs, and were joined and fitted with marvelous closeness, leaving no space for the blown sand to penetrate. This house was the pride of Sabmon, who swept it daily with a besom of mummy’s hair, till it shone immaculate as polished ivory both within and without.

Despite his remoteness and reclusion, and the hardships that attended a journey to his abode, Sabmon was much consulted by the people of Tasuun, and was even sought by pilgrims from the farther shores of Zothique. However, though not ungracious or inhospitable, die often ignored the queries of his visitors, who, as a rule, wished merely to divine the future or to ask advice concerning the most advantageous government of their affairs. He became more and more taciturn with age, and spoke little with men in his last years. It was said, perhaps not untruly, that he preferred to talk with the murmuring palms about his well, or the wandering stars that went over his hermitage.

In the summer of Sabmon’s ninetythird year, there came to him the youth Amalzain, his great-nephew, and the son of a niece that Sabmon had loved dearly in days before his retirement to a gymnosophic seclusion. Amalzain, who had spent all of his one-and-twenty years in the upland home of his parents, was on his way to Miraab, the capital of Tasuun, where he would serve as a cup-bearer to Famorgh the king. This post, obtained for him by influential friends of his father, was much coveted among the youth of the land, and would lead to high advancement if he were fortunate enough to win the king’s favor. In accord with his mother’s wish, he had come to visit Sabmon and to ask the counsel of the sage regarding various problems of worldly conduct.

Sabmon, whose eyes were undimmed by age and astronomy and much poring over volumes of archaic ciphers, was pleased with Amalzain and found in the boy something of his mother’s beauty. And for this reason he gave freely of his hoarded wisdom; and, after uttering many profound and pertinent maxims, he said to Amalzain:

"It is indeed well that you have come to me: for, innocent of the world’s turpitude, you fare to a city of strange sins and strange witcheries and sorceries. There are niunerous evils in Miraab. Its women are witches and harlots, and their beauty is a foulness wherein the young, the strong, the valiant, are limed and taken.”

Then, ere Amalzain departed, Sabmon




gave to him a small amulet of silver, graven curiously with the migniard skeleton of a girl. And Sabmon said:

"I counsel you to wear this amulet at all times henceforward. It contains a pinch of ashes from the pyre of Yos Ebni, sage and archimage, who won supremacy over men and demons in elder years by defying all mortal temptation and putting down the insubordination of the flesh. There is a virtue in these ashes, and they will protect you from such evils as were overcome by Yos Ebni. And yet, peradventure, there are ills and enchantments in Miraab from which the amulet can not defend you. In such case you must return to me. I shall watch over you carefully, and shall know all that occurs to you in Miraab: for I have long since become the owner of certain rare faculties of sight and hearing whose exercise is not debarred or limited by mere distance.”

Amalzain, being ignorant of the matters at which Sabmon hinted, was somewhat bewildered by this peroration. But he received the amulet gratefully. Then, bidding Sabmon a reverential farewell, he resumed his journey to Miraab, wondering much as to the fortune that would befall him in that sinful and manylegended city.


F AMorgh, who had grown old and senile amid his debaucheries, was the ruler of an aging, semi-desert land; and his court was a place of far-sought luxury, of obliquitous refinement and corruption. The youth Amalzain, accustomed only to the simple manners, the rude virtues and vices of country-dwelling folk, was dazzled at first by the sybaritic life around him. But a certain innate strength of character, fortified by the moral teachings of his parents and

the precepts of his great-uncle, Sabmon, preserved him from any grave errors or lapses.

Thus it was that he served as a cupbearer at bachannalian revels, but remained abstemious throughout, pouring night after night in the ruby-crusted cup of Famorgh the maddening wines that were drugged with cannabis and the stupefying arrack with its infusion of poppy. With untainted heart and flesh he beheld the infamous mummeries whereby the courtiers, vying with each other in shamelessness, attempted to lighten the king’s ennui. Feeling only wonder or disgust, he watched the nimble and lascivious contortions of black dancers from Dooza Thom in the north, or saffron-bodied girls from the southern isles. His parents, who believed implicitly in the superhuman goodness of monarchs, had not prepared him for this spectacle of royal vice; but the reverence they had instilled so thoroughly into Amalzain led him to regard it all as being the peculiar but mysterious prerogative of the kings of Tasuun.

During his first month in Miraab, Amalzain heard much of the Princess Ulua, sole daughter of Famorgh and Queen Lunalia; but since the women of the royal family seldom attended the banquets or appeared in public, he did not see her. The huge and shadowy palace, however, was filled with ^whispers concerning her amours. Ulua, he was told, had inherited the sorceries of her mother Lunalia, whose dark, luxurious beauty, so often sung by bewitched poets, was now fallen to a haggish decrepitude. The lovers of Ulua were innumerable, and she often procured their passion or insured their fidelity by other charms than those of her person. Though little taller than a child, she was exquisitely formed and endowed with the loveliness of some feTHE WITCHCRAFT OF ULUA


male demon that might haunt the slumbers of youth. She was feared by many and her ill will was deemed a dangerous thing. Famorgh, no less blind to her sins and witcheries than he had been to those of Lunalia, indulged her in all ways and denied her nothing.

Amalzain’s duties left him much idle time, for Famorgh usually slept the double sleep of age and intoxication after the evening revels. Much of this time he gave to the study of algebra and the reading of olden poems and romances. One morning, while he was engaged with certain algebraic calculations, there came to Amalzain a huge negress who had been pointed out to him as one of Ulua’s waiting-women. She told him peremptorily that he was to follow her to the apartments of Ulua. Bewildered and amazed by this singular interruption of his studies, he was unable to reply for a moment. Thereupon, seeing his hesitation, the great black woman lifted him in her naked arms and carried him easily from the room and through the palace halls. Angry, and full of discomfiture, he found himself deposited in a chamber hung with shameless designs, where, amid the fuming of aphrodisiac vapors, the princess regarded him with luxurious gravity from a couch of fire-bright scarlet. She was small as a woman of the elf-folk, and voluptuous as a coiled lamia. The incense floated about her like sinuous veils.

"There are other things than the pouring of wine for a sottish monarch, or the study of worm-eaten volumes,” said Ulua in a voice that was like the flowing of hot honey. "Sir cup-bearer, your youth should have a better employment than these.”

"I ask no employment, other than my duties and studies,” replied Amalzain ungraciously. "But tell me, O princess.

what is your will? Why has your serving-woman brought me here in a fashion so unseemly?”

"For a youth so erudite and clever, the question should be needless,” answered Ulua, smiling obliquely. "See you not that I am beautiful and desirable? Or can it be that your perceptions are duller than I had thought?”

"I do not doubt that you are beautiful,” said the boy, "but such matters hardly concern an humble cup-bearer.”

The vapors, mounting thickly from golden thuribles before the couch, were parted with a motion as of drawn draperies; and Amalzain lowered his gaze before the enchantress, who shook with a soft laughter that made the jewels upon her bosom twinkle like living eyes.

"It would seem that those musty volumes have indeed blinded you,” she told him. "You have need of that euphrasy which purges the sight. Go now; but return presently — of your own accord.”

F or many days thereafter, Amalzain, going about his duties as usual, was aware of a strange haunting. It seemed now that Ulua was everywhere. Appearing at the revels, as if by some new caprice, she flaunted her evil beauty in the eyes of the young cup-bearer; and often, by day, he met her in the palace gardens and corridors. All men spoke of her, as if conspiring tacitly to keep her in his thoughts; and it seemed that even the heavy arrases whispered her name as they rustled in the lost winds that wandered through the gloomy and interminable halls.

This, however, was not all: for her undesired image began to trouble his nightly dreams; and awakening, he heard the warm, dulcet languor of her voice, and felt the caress of light and subtle fingers in the darkness. Peering at the pale



moon that waxed beyond the windows, above the black cypresses, he saw her dead, corroded face assume the living features of Ulua. The lithe and migniard form of the young witch appeared to move among the fabulous queens and goddesses that thronged the opulent hangings with their amours. Beheld as if through enchantment, her face leaned beside his in the mirrors; and she came and vanished, phantom-like, with seductive murmurs and wanton gestures, as he bent over his books. But though he was perturbed by these appearances, in which he could scarce distinguish the real from the illusory, Amalzain was still indifferent toward Ulua, being surely protected from her charms by the amulet containing the ashes of Yos Ebni, saint and sage and archimage. From certain curious flavors detected more than once in his food and drink, he suspected that the love-potions for which she had become infamous were being administered to him; but beyond a light and passing qualmishness, he experienced no ill efi^ect whatever; and he was wholly ignorant of the spells woven against him in secret, and the thrice-lethal invultuations that were designed to wound his heart and senses.

Now (though he knew it not) his indifference was a matter of much gossip at the court. Men marvelled greatly at such exemption; for all whom the princess had chosen heretofore, whether captains, cup-bearers or high dignitaries, or common soldiers and grooms, had yielded easily to her bewitchments. So it came to pass that Ulua was angered, since all men knew that her beauty was scorned by Amalzain, and her sorcery was impotent to ensnare him. Thereupon she ceased to appear at the revels of Famorgh; and Amalzain beheld her no longer in the halls and gardens; and

neither his dreams nor his waking hours were haunted any more by the spellwrought semblance of Ulua. So, in his innocence, he rejoiced as one who has encountered a grave peril and has come forth unharmed.

Then, later, on a moonless night, as he lay sleeping tranquilly in the moonless hours before dawn, there came to him in his dream a figure muffled from crown to heel with the vestments of the tomb. Tall as a caryatid, awful and menacing, it leaned above him in silence more malignant than any curse; and the cerements fell open at the breast, and charnelworms and death-scarabs and scorpions, together with shreds of rotting flesh, rained down upon Amalzain. Then, as he awoke from his nightmare, sick and stifled, he breathed a carrion fetor, and felt against him the pressure of a still, heavy body. Affrighted, he rose and lit the lamp; but the bed was empty. Yet the odor of putrefaction still lingered; and Amalzain could have sworn that the corpse of a woman, two weeks dead and teeming with maggots, had lain closely at his side in the darkness.

'Thereafter, for many nights, his slumbers were broken by such foulnesses as this. Hardly could he sleep at all for the horror of that which came and went, invisible but palpable, in his chamber. Always he awoke from ill dreams, to find about him the stiffened arms of longdead succubi, or to feel at his side the amorous trembling of fleshless skeletons. He was choked by the natron and bitumen of mummied breasts; he was crushed by the unremoving weight of gigantic liches; he was kissed nauseously by lips that were oozing tatters of corruption.

Nor was this all; for other abominations came to him by day, visible, and perceived through all his senses, and more loathsome even than the dead.

W. T.— 7

THE WITCHCRAFT OF ULUA

257 ,

Things that seemed as tlie leavings of leprosy crawled before him at high noon in the halls of Famorgh; and they rose up from the shadows and sidled toward him, leering whitely with faces that were no longer faces, and trying to caress him with their half-eaten fingers. About his ankles, as he went to and fro, there clung lascivious empusae with breasts that were furred like the bat; and serpent-bodied lamiae minced and pirouetted before his eyes, like the dancers before the king.

No longer could he read his books or solve his problems of algebra in peace; for the letters changed from moment to moment beneath his scrutiny and were twisted into runes of evil meaning; and the signs and ciphers he had written were turned into devils no bigger than large emmets, that writhed foully across the paper as if on a field, performing those rites which are acceptable only to Alila, queen of perdition and goddess of all iniquities.

Thus plagued and bedevilled, the youth Amalzain was near to madness; yet he dared not complain or speak to others of aught that he beheld; for he knew that these horrors, whether immaterial or substantial, were perceived only by himself. Nightly, for the full period of a moon, he lay with dead things in his chamber; and daily, in all his comings and goings, he was besought by abhorrent specters. And he doubted not, that all these were the sendings of Ulua, angered by his refusal of her love; and he remembered that Sabmon had hinted darkly of certain enchantments from which the ashes of Yos Ebni, preserved in the silver amulet, might be powerless to defend him. And, knowing that such enchantments were upon him now, he recalled the final injimction of the old archimage.

So, feeling that there was no help for him save in the wizardry of Sabmon, he W.T.— 8

went before King Famorgh and begged a short leave of absence from the court. And Famorgh, who was well pleased with the cup-bearer, and moreover had begun to note his thinness and pallor, granted the request readily.

Mounted on a palfrey chosen for speed and endurance, Amalzain rode northward from Miraab on a sultry morning in autumn. A strange heaviness had stilled all the air; and great coppery clouds were piled like towering, many-domed palaces of genii on the desert hills. The sun appeared to swim in molten brass. No vultures flew on the silent heavens; and the very jackals had retired to their lairs, as if in fear of some unknown doom. But Amalzain, riding swiftly toward Sabmon’s hermitage, was haunted still by leprous larvae that rose before him, posturing foully on the dun sands; and he heard the desirous moaning of succubi under the hooves of his horse.

The night waylaid him, airless and starless, as he came to a well amid dying palms. Here he lay sleepless, with the curse of Ulua still upon him: for it seemed that the dry, dusty liches of desert tombs reclined rigidly at his side; and bony fingers wooed him toward the imfathomable sand-pits from which they had risen.

W EARY and devil-ridden, he reached the wattled house of Sabmon at noon of the next day. The sage greeted him affectionately, showing no surprize, and listened to his story with the air of one who harkens a twice-told tale.

"These things, and more, were known to me from the beginning,” he said to Amalzain. 'T could have saved you from the sendings of Ulua ere now; but it was my wish that you should come to me at this time, forsaking the court of the dotard Famorgh and the evil city of



Miraab, whose iniquities are now at the full. The imminent doom of Miraab, though unread by her astrologers, has been declared in the heavens; and I would not that you should share the doom.

"It is needful,” he went on, "that the spells of Ulua should be broken on this very day, and the sendings returned to her that sent them; since otherwise they would haunt you for ever, remaining as a visible and tangible plague when the witch herself has gone to her black lord, Thasaidon, in the seventh hell.”

Then, to the wonderment of Amalzain, the old magician brought forth from a cabinet of ivory an elliptic mirror of dark and burnished metal and placed it before him. The mirror was held aloft by the muffled hands of a veiled image; and peering within it, Amalzain saw neither his own face nor the face of Sabmon, nor aught of the room itself reflected. And Sabmon enjoined him to watch the mirror closely, and then repaired to a small oratory that was curtained from the chamber with long and queerly painted rolls of camel-parchment.

Watching the mirror, Amalzain was aware that certain of the sendings of Ulua came and went beside him, striving ever to gain his attention with unclean gestures such as harlots use. But resolutely he fixed his eyes on the void and unreflecting metal; and anon he heard the voice of Sabmon chanting without pause the powerful words of an antique formula of exorcism; and now from between the oratory curtains there issued the intolerable pungency of burning spices, such as are employed to drive away demons.

Then Amalzain perceived, without lifting his eyes from the mirror, that the sendings of Ulua had vanished like vapors blown away by the desert wind.

But in the mirror a scene limned itself darkly, and he seemed to look on the marble towers of the city of Miraab beneath overlooming bastions of ominous cloud. Then the scene shifted, and he saw the palace hall where Famorgh nodded in wine-stained purple, senile and drunken, amid his ministers and sycophants. Again the mirror changed, and he beheld a room with tapestries of shameless design, where, on a couch of fire-bright crimson, the Princess Ulua sat with her latest lovers amid the fuming of golden thuribles.

Marvelling as he peered within the mirror, Amalzain witnessed a strange thing; for the vapors of the thuribles, mounting thickly and voluminously, took from instant to instant the form of those very apparitions by which he had been bedevilled so long. Ever they rose and multiplied, till the chamber teemed with the spawn of hell and the vomitings of the riven charnel. Between Ulua and the lover at her right hand, who was a captain of the king’s guard, there coiled a monstrous lamia, enfolding them both in its serpentine volumes and crushing them with its human bosom; and close at her left hand appeared a half-eaten corpse, leering with lipless teeth, from whose cerements worms were sifted upon Ulua and her second lover, who was a royal equerry. And, swelling like the fumes of some witches’ vat, those other abominations pressed about the couch of Ulua with obscene mouthings and fingerings.

At this, like the mark of a hellish branding, horror was printed on the features of the captain and the equerry; and a terror rose in the eyes of Ulua like a pale flame ignited in sunless pits; and her breasts shuddered beneath the breastcups. And now, in a trice, the mirrored room began to rock violently, and the censers were overturned on the tilting

THE WITCHCRAFT OF ULUA


flags, and the shameless hangings shook and bellied like the blown sails of a vessel in storm. Great cracks appeared in the floor, and beside the couch of Ulua a chasm deepened swiftly and then widened from wall to wall. The whole chamber was riven asunder, and-the princess and her two lovers, with all her loathly sendings about them, were hurled tumultuously into the chasm.

After that, the mirror darkened, and Amalzain beheld for a moment the pale towers of Miraab, tossing and falling on heavens black as adamant. The mirror itself trembled, and the veiled image of metal supporting it began to totter and seemed about to fall; and the wattled house of Sabmon shook in the passing

earthquake, but, being stoutly built, stood firm while the mansions and palaces of Miraab went down in ruin.

When the earth had ceased its long trembling, Sabmon issued from the oratory.

"It is needless to moralize on what has happened,” he said. "You have learned the true nature of carnal desire, and have likewise beheld the history of mundane corruption. Now, being wise, you will turn early to those things which are incorruptible and beyond the world.”

Thereafter, till the death of Sabmon, Amalzain dwelt with him and became his only pupil in the science of the stars and the hidden arts of enchantment and sorcery.

By HERBERT KAUFMAN, JR.

Cold, dead clouds in a sodden sky;

Dripping winds, and the voiceless cry Of things long dead. From the swirling void Of thoughts, fiend-spawned and self-destroyed, Black night sables an empty world.

And the moon is dead, and the stars are furled. The sullen waters heave and swell.

And a sick sea flames with the fires of hell.

The venomous shafts of the driving rain Strike home, and the heart dissolves in pain: For the soul of man is pallid and stark,

And ghosts walk abroad in the bellowing dark. The churning wheels of the spirit mesh.

And the soul grows sick at the touch of the flesh. And agony shrivels the searing brain At the ceaseless, battering drum of the rain.

By EDITH EIGHTY STEWART

Police Headquarters,

Los Angeles, California.

Gentlemen:

The coroner’s inquest held over the mutilated body of Professor Carhart to account for the baffling circumstances surrounding his death gave the verdict: "Met death at the claws and teeth of some wild beast, presumably a mountain lion.”

Considering the prominent and honorary position held by the professor in some of our foremost universities, I felt justified in suppressing the astounding diary, herewith enclosed, found by me in the dead man’s room after the inquest.

I submit the diary without comment. Any conclusion derived from its perusal can be only too ghastly and unbelievable.

Respectfully,

J. Donohue, Operative.

A S WE entered the canyon, that

/■% dreaded sensation of oppression ^ and suffocation surged upon me and I tore away my collar and lifted the hat from my throbbing head.

There are hypocrites who prate vapid-

•From WEIRD TALES fer May, 1924.

ly of the exaltation and exhilaration inspired in the human by these same mountains. Liars! Who should know more of mountains than I, who for thirty years have studied them, chipped away at their exteriors, articulated every rock and stratum in their towering frames, explored and explained their very entrails? Why, I have even proved to myself that they possess a soul, or souls — personality — malignant human emotions. God! What I have suffered!

Is it in revenge for my exhaustive knowledge of them that they torture me so? When night comes — it is night now — they shake from their torpor and become monstrosities crowding closer and closer, stooping to compress the air about my fevered head, crushing into my brain. It is only by ignoring them that I gain relief; so I am writing now in a frenzy to escape them.

As I said, we had entered the canyon. There were only the stage-driver and I. I had been dismissed from the university with only the explanation that my course of study was becoming erratic. Why had I selected the little lodge at the source of this rugged ravine for my retreat? It


THE SIXTH TREE


should have been the last place in the world for me to seek rest; yet I was here. The gray road twisted its dusty way into the gathering dusk of the mountains. The stage-driver essayed a few conversational stupidities, but I soon silenced his chatter. He looked at me askance and whipped up the horses. The trail turned abruptly. The door behind was closed. Mountains reared about me on either side and a feeling of panic assailed me. I was indeed in die enemy’s territory.

An hour passed in silence. Suddenly a bend in the road interrupted the monotony of the scene. With what emotions I beheld a cabin — an adobe cabin crouched back from the road against the hill! Five — no, six — gaunt trees, that might once have been willows, stood in a ghostly row before it. Its windows, glassless and shadeless like the lidless eyes of a skull, leered and peered down at us. A glance had seared it on my mind — and then we had passed it.

’’What place was that?”

The driver lashed his horses to greater speed.

"A good place to keep away from after dark.”

I waited impatiently for him to volunteer further information, but the fool was evidently sulky. I would wheedle.

"My good man, your reply only arouses my curiosity.”

He slowed down. The road lay straight. Turning, I could see the haggard eyes of the house as it watched for the effect the driver’s tale would have upon me.

It seems that some years before, after a heavy rain, some hikers had found in front of the deserted cabin five shallow graves, one beneath each tree. Each grave had contained a man. Investigation had identified them as a group of sheep-herders — rough customers at the best. They had evidently spent the night in the cabin,

for the place was littered with empty bottles, cards and poker chips.

Who had committed the wholesale murder and buried the bodies was never discovered. Rumor had it that the five sheep-herders had located a mine back in the mountains and had hired a geologist to go with them to assay the ore, but this was never substantiated. There was no one who had actually seen the geologist or knew much about the mine.

"Where are the bodies now?”

The driver shrugged. "Nobody claimed them, so they were thrown back into their graves, the dirt shoveled on again, and left till Judgment Day.”

"Well, if they are dead and disposed of till the Day of Judgment, why are you afraid of this place?” I asked with some scorn.

He shook his head darkly. "There’s six trees and only five graves under ’em.”

"Well?”

"They say there’s a curse on this place until the sixth tree has a dead man, too.”

"Bah!” I cried. "Nurserj' tales!”

But I must have spoken strangely, for his long whip curled out over the horses' heads and we swung around the last bend. No longer was the cabin visible, but I knew I would return.

I T MUST have been midnight as I approached the cabin, a midnight that held its breath and waited for something. A hush of expectancy had stilled every sound of the night. I stepped over the graves — one, two, three, four, five. There was no wind, and yet I am sure I heard a rustle, or better, a faint creaking in the naked branches of the sixth tree as I passed beneath it.

Suddenly I halted. My heart swelled and burst into a volley of stifled beatings. There could be no illusion; a wan, lurid glow slowly grew from the sur262

WEIRD I’ALES

rounding darkness. There was a light within the cabin. Someone was there. I lashed my cowering senses to action and noiselessly approached the window.

Staggering, I clutched the windowledge for support. The uneven light from a guttering candle secured in an empty bottle disclosed what I had (God help me!) expected to see. They — one, two, three, four, five of them — they were there, the same and yet how horrible! Lifelessly, yet with terrible relentlessness, they played at their everlasting cards. Their dank hair hung in wisps over sunken eyes. The leathery skin of their faces sagged loosely over fleshless skulls. Their clothes hung in tatters, slimed with earth and mud.

And their hands! Fascinated, in terror, I watched those lean, blackened claws deal the mildewed and ragged cards. Their nails, long and broken, scratched over the rough table as they clutched at the chips. They were intent on their game, unaware of my presence. But even as I gratefully assured myself of this their eyes were on me. There was no hate, no fury, no fiendish glee in their expression, rather a blankness, a patient waiting. They had ceased to play. All the waiting in the universe concentrated about me. There was a vacant place beside the dealer. When I could resist no longer, I went within.

The dawn lay pallid on the hills when I flung away from the cabin. There was no sound or motion from the sixth tree as I shrank from its reaching fingers. When clear of It, I ran — ran in the madness of terror to the hotel, locked my door and fell sobbing in wrath and exhaustion on the bed.

I had lost! There was no depth to the agony of my soul. We had played for no obvious stakes, but only too well I knew the prize for which we fought. Thert would be two more nights of play

with two more chances to win. I arose, bathed my scorching brow, and all day I sat figuring, figuring. As a man of science I had often scoffed at the thing called luck, for any game of cards must be reducible to some science or system. Night found me triumphant. Scarcely could I wait for the darkness that I might hasten to their humiliation.

And that night I won! I won, I say! They were waiting for me as before. The cards were dealt, and then I proved that all things are explained by science. A man so learned can hold the world in his hand, immune from the uncertainties of chance and accident!

M y triumph grew as the dawn approached. I grew reckless. I chudeled. I laughed. I taunted them in their ghastly dead faces. They sat immobile, playing, playing. Their silence infuriated me. I tried to sting them to retort, but my words found answer only In the angry mutterings of the echo from the hollow room. When, as before, the candle choked and expired like a dying man and their wasted forms faded into the shadows of the cabin, I hurled the cards after them and went stumbling and laughing into the morning, drunk with my triumph. As I passed beneath the accursed tree it dared to trail clinging, warmthless fingers across my cheek. I jerked away in loathing and derision. I still can feel the iciness of its touch.

They have asked me, these curious ignorant fools here, where I spend the nights. They talk and whisper about me in little groups that grow silent and disperse when I approach. Well, tonight is the last night, and then I shall be free and far away. If I had not been a man of science and evolved a system, then I might have known defeat; and these gapTHE SIXTH TREE


ing fools might have something to fill their empty brains and furnish tiiem with silly chatter. They would find my mutilated body, clawed as though by a mountain lion flung into a shallow grave — beneath the sixth tree.

But I shall not lose! When this night curdles into dawn I shall stuff their filthy

graves, stamping the dirt upon them until it fills their mouths and blinds their staring eyes. And the tree? I shall leave it to wring its bony hands for ever in impotent chagrin.

But why am I lingering here? It is time for the game to begin and — they are waiting.

Uhe

By HAZEL BURDEN

Bind my hair upon my head,

Fasten up my shoon;

Tonight I travel far and far Toward the golden moon.

Tonight I tread the Milky Way On prism paths of stars.

And journey through the Pleiades,

And set my foot on Mars.

I shall go far on eager feet.

Straight through the Milky Way,

And scatter star-dust all around On those who bid me stay.

But I’ll return to earth again,

Though on reluctant feet,

To walk on patterned paths once more In raiment straight and neat.

And you will never know, my dear.

And you will never care

To climb the heights that I have climbed. Or do the deeds I’d dare.

e/to

tar^Gazer Climbs

Y ou, the readers, seem to have liked the December cover of Weird Tales, by M. Brundage, better than any other cover we have had on this magazine; for a veritable chorus of praise rises from the letters of appreciation that the postman has placed on the editor’s desk. Some of you, however, think that the cover should have illustrated one of the stories instead of being merely symbolic of the contents.

Good old Jack Darrow, of Chicago, writes to the Eyrie: "As to naked women on your covers, I don’t care whether the ladies are nude or wrapped up in big fur coats so long as the covers are weird. If the story describes the heroine as being nude, let the artist make her nude, but for weirdness’ sake pick out the weirdest scene you can find.”

Writes Lionel Dilbeck, of Wichita, Kansas: "The Lady in Gray by Donald Wandrei is the best story in months. Also the cover is much better this time, even if it is almost a duplicate of the inside illustration for The Lair of the Star-Spawn in the August 1932 issue.”

"I love the picture on the cover for December,” writes Gertrude M. Carr, of Bremerton, Washington, "but I hunted in vain for the story it represented. Please, please keep the covers by Brundage, though if too much nudity is offensive to some, let the covers be like this one, beautiful and dressed, too.”

Maxine Schwartz, of Seattle, writes to the Eyrie: "I have been reading Weird Tales for the last year and must say I have enjoyed the stories to the utmost. I have just completed reading your December issue and I want to commend it very highly. I enjoyed every page. I do not, as a rule, care for serials, but The Vampire Master by Hugh Davidson has me in its clutches and I simply can’t let go.”

Michael Liene, of Hazleton, Pennsylvania, writes in part: "I have just laid aside the December issue, with a sense of pleasure and enjoyment that I have not experienced with any other publication printing stories along the poliq'- of Weird Tales. I am quite satisfied that, at last, the ideal periodical (though not yet perfect) is on the news stands. Your magazine, to me, is always as pleasant a surprize as buying a bottle of milk and finding it all cream. ... As for the cover designs: the November and December covers are exquisite. But why doesn’t Mr. Brundage, the artist, take an incident out of one of the stories to illustrate? It gives the purchaser of the magazine an idea of the thrills that await him within. Any magazine that has beautiful cover designs and does not have any feature inside the magazine to go with the cover, is trying to sell the magazine by cheating the public.”

(Please turn to page 266)


Coming Next Month

A WILD and stifling fear contended with a wilder hope in Phariom’s bosom. Trembling, he went toward the table ; and a cold clamminess, wrought by the presence of the dead, assailed him. The table was nearly thirty feet in length, and it rose waist-high on a dozen mighty legs. Beginning at the nearer end, he passed along the row of corpses, peering fearfully into each upturned face. Both sexes, and many ages and differing ranks were represented. Nobles and rich merchants were crowded by beggars in filthy rags. Some were newly dead, and others, it seemed, had lain there for days, and were beginning to show the marks of corruption. There were many gaps in the ordered row, suggesting that certain of the corpses had been removed. Phariom went on in the dim light, searching for the loved features of Elaith. At last, when he was nearing the further end, and had begun to fear that she was not among them, he found her.

With the cryptic pallor and stillness of her strange malady upon her, she lay unchanged on the chill stone. A great thankfulness was born in the heart of Phariom, for he felt sure that she was not dead — and that she had not awakened at any time to the horrors of the temple. If he could bear her away from the hateful purlieus without detection, she would recover from her death-simulating sickness. He stooped over to lift her in his arms.

At that moment, he heard a murmur of low voices in the direaion of the door by which he had entered the sanctuary. Thinking that some of the priests had returned, he dropped swiftly on hands and knees and crawled beneath the ponderous table, which afforded the only accessible hiding-place. Retreating into shadow, he waited and looked out between the pillar-thick legs.

The voices grew louder, and he saw the curiously sandalled feet and shortish robes of three persons who approached the table of the dead and paused in the very spot where he himself had stood a few instants before. Who they were, he could not surmise ; but their garments of light and swarthy red were not the shroudings of Mordiggian’s priests. He was uncertain whether or not they had seen him; and crouching in the low space beneath the table, he plucked his dagger from its sheath. . . .

This vivid weird tale of a ghoulish cult and the great black shadow that welled up into hideous being in the temple of Mordiggian will be printed complete in the March number of Weird Tales:

THE CHARNEL GOD

By CLARK ASHTON SMITH

— ALSO—

THE BLACK GARGOYLE WINGED DEATH

By Hugh B. Cave By Hazel Heald

A tale of goose-flesh horror in the jungles of An eery story of the frightful punishment that

Borneo — a story of stark terror and the strange overtook a scientist who bred poisonous African

doom of an evil white man. insects to kill his friend.

THUNDERING WORLDS By Edmond Hamilton

A colossal thrill-tale of the distant future, when our Earth and the other planets leave the dying sun on a stupendous voyage to distant stars in search of light and heat.

THE CLENCHED HAND GRAY WORLD

By Stuart Strauss By Paul Ernst

An unusual story of a bronze fist and the weird Gregor awoke to a terrifying gray dawn, in which

train of circumstances surrounding a mysterious there was no color, and life was terribly changed,

murder in a New Orleans artist's studio. A story that you will long remember.

March WEIRD TALES Out March 1

265 .



f Continued from page 264 )

"I commend you highly on your choice of M. Brundage as a cover artist,” writes Robert Leonard Russell, of Mount Vernon, Illinois. "Brundage is absolutely magnificent. Your last seven covers are the best, the weirdest that have ever graced good old WT. The black backgrounds give a positively bizarre effect. However, it seems that covers ought to illustrate the lead-off story. Your December issue was one of the best you have ever published. I was delighted to see a story by E. F. Benson, who has, sadly, been missing from your pages for a long, long time. Benson is one of the modern masters of the weird tale. I like Howard’s Conan stories, but I prefer good old Solomon Kane, Howard’s earlier brain-child. Run more ghost stories, tales of ghouls, elementals, whimsical fantasies, and less corporeal, adventurous stories. Have more stories of the goose-pimple inducing type. And how about a few stories with settings in the past, and more 'timeless’ ones like The Ox-Cart by Frank Owen.^ The Lady in Gray was the best story in the December number.”

A letter from Guy Dctrick, of Big Prairie, Ohio, says: "Weird Tales scored a breath-taking hit with me again, especially with tlie third installment of The Vampire Master, by Hugh Davidson. That in itself was worth the price of the magazine. It is just the kind of story I like. Davidson is certainly to be praised. Why not have another one soon by Hugh B. Cave.^” [Mr. Detrick will be happy to know that the cover design in next month’s issue will be based on a story by Mr. Cave, entitled The Black Gargoyle. — The Editors.]

"Cut out the cheap sensational covers,” writes Huthbert K. Greely, of Philadelphia. "This month’s cover is colorful and attractive without the help of nudity. Are you proselytizing for the nudists?”

"I like Weird Tales,” writes H. H. Blade, of San Francisco. "It is a grand magazine and I’ve read it for as long as I can remember, though I have never written a fan letter before. The best story you ever published was Revelations in Black, by Carl Jacobi, which certainly made a great impression on me. That story was different from anything I have ever read, and I am wondering why you don’t have more tales by this author. By all means start an Author’s Page in the back of the magazine, and let Mr. Jacobi be the first one to tell about himself.” [We certainly do intend to publish more stories by Carl Jacobi. One of them is already scheduled for our April issue. — The Editors.]

A letter from J. B. Dixon, of Little Rock, Arkansas, says: "For some time I have intended writing to commend your covers by Brundage, but kept putting it off until the December cover came along and broke down even my procrastination. At last a cover worthy of the masterpieces published in Weird Tales! A cover that combines the unusual with beauty, and with that gorgeous breath-taking use of color that is Brundage’s specialty. For years I saw Weird Tales wearing covers that lamentably failed to measure up to its contents. I had come to the conclusion that pictorial art was not equal to the task and that you should adopt a standard cover, plain, or with at most a symbolic decoration — and then along came Brundage. I have but one objection to this genius of weird art: the grotesque malproportions of many of his female figures. As a particular case in point, consider the inflated bust of the figure on the November cover. My first choice among your autliors is Clark Ashton

(Please turn to page 268)

Back Copies

Because of the many requests for back numbers of Weird Tales^ the publishers do their best to keep a sufficient supply on hand to meet all demands. This magazine was established in early 1923 and there has been a steady drain on the supply of back copies ever since. At present, we have the following back numbers on hand for sale:







Jan.

Jan.

Jan.

Jan.

Jan.

Febb

Feb.

Feb.-Mar.

Feb.

Feb.

Mar.

Mar.

Mar.

....

Mar.

Apr.

Apr.

Apr.

Apf.-May

Apr.

Apr.

May

....

May

June

June

Jun.-Jul.

June

June

July

July

July

July

July

Aug.

.....

Aug.

Aug.

Aug.

Sept.

Sept.

Sept.

....

Sept.

Sept.

Oct.

....

Oct.

Oct.

Oct.

Nov.

....

Nov.

Nov.

Nov.

Dec.

Dec.

Dec.

Dec.

Dec.

These back numbers contain many fascinating stories. If you are interested in obtaining any of the back numbers on this list please hurry your order because we can not guarantee that the list will be as complete as It now is within the next 30 days. The price on all back copies is 25c per copy. Mail all orders to:


840 N. Michigan Ave.

Chicago, Illinois




( Continued from page 266 )

Smith. He excels in that particular which makes the weird tale weird- — atmosphere. His seemingly unlimited vocabulary, combined with his uncanny feeling for the use of adjectives, never fails to create a sense of being cast adrift from the palpable world on every side. In this difficult art he excels Poe. And I must add my vote to the already overwhelming majority in favor of Seabury Quinn and the inimitable Jules de Grandin. Hail to Shambleau, by C. L. Moore, in the November issue. That is a tale which stands out as a fit companion to any of the classics of weird literature. In the December issue I pick King Cobra, by Joseph O. Kesselring, as winner by three lengths. I don’t care for serials; their disconnected episodes fail to sustain that atmosphere so necessary to the weird tale.”

E. L. Mengshoel, of Minneapolis, writes to the Eyrie: "My hearty compliments for your December issue. It ends the year’s publication with a real acme number, and deserves applause. In the whole issue there is not a single unfascinating story, and some of the tales are spellbinders. I am indeed at a loss how to point out any single one as the 'best’ and the 'next best,’ because every one seems the 'best,’ each in its own peculiar way. I might say, however, that Donald Wandrei’s The Lady in Gray had a weirdness that was particularly 'goose-fleshy’ in its gruesome materializing dreams. Frank Owen’s The Ox-Cart presented weirdness with poetic beauty. The resourceful Seabury Quinn in his Red Gauntlets of Czerni shows his 'weird’ familiarity with the characters of widely different nationalities and at the same time delights us with again meeting that precious Monsieur Jules, whose original bon-mots and hyperboles, ludicrous oaths and droll expressions are no less fascinating than his stunts in occultism. And all the rest of the stories, too many to mention, were real thrillers.”

J. D. Arden, of Detroit, writes to the Eyrie: "Thanks for the Frank Owen story in the current Weird Tales. It has been a long time since we have had something from Mr. Owen’s masterly pen. I shall never forget his exquisite little Chinese fantasies — The Blue City, The Purple Sea, and The Tinkle of the Camel’s Bell. These are real classics. The cover is a beauty and in keeping with the Yuletide. That red candle does it. This time Mr. Brundage must surely satisfy everybody — except those naughty nudists who prefer naked women on the cover. Just so we won’t have to hear any more cheers and groans in the Eyrie regarding the covers, I suggest that you have our puzzled Mr. Brundage draw three covers each month: a nice cover, a naughty cover, and a bad cover. The nice covers would portray only ladies with all their clothes on; the naughty covers would be sort of Mae Westish — partly clothed; and last but not least, the bad cover, which would have the ladies pictured without any clothes on. This arrangement would satisfy everybody, and no one would have cause to complain. He or she would simply have to buy Weird Tales with the type of cover he or she prefers.”

"The stories in Weird Tales of late have been so uniformly good that I have hesitated to pick out any particular one as especially deserving of praise, and there has been little to condemn,” writes George N. Heflick, of Mantua, Ohio. "I am taking the liberty, however, of entering into two or three of the controversies that the Eyrie has been featuring recently. First, the question of interplanetary stories. I enjoy a g od story of this type very much, and should be sorry indeed to see them entirely

(Please turn to page 270)

SAVE *1.50

ON yOUR SUBSCRIPTION TO


And A cce pt This Special 0^^er

You may have experienced difficulty at times in finding Weird Tales on the newsstands. For this magazine sells out early and many small newsdealers don’t like to re-order a supply after publication date.

So make sure of getting Weird Tales every month by entering your subscription now and accepting this special money-saving offer.

'The regular price of a two-year subscription is $6.00. But by filling out the coupon below, you can secure Weird Tales for two years for $4.50 — a worthwhile saving of $1.50.

Or you may order a year’s subscription for yourself and another for a friend at the special price of $4.50.

MAIL THIS COUPON TODAY and SAVE $1.50

WEIRD TALES, Dept. J,

840 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago, lU.

For the enclosed remittance of $ enter the following subscriptions at these

rates: (1 year — $3.00) 2 years — $4.50, saving $1.50 (Send either one 2-year subscription or two 1-year subscriptions).

Name Address

Name

Address



( Continued from page 268 )

discontinued. However, I think it a good idea to follow your present policy of limiting them to not more than one in each issue, devoting the rest of your space to stories that conform more closely to the definition of 'supernatural and uncanny’. Now as to the nudes on your covers; let me add my vote to those of your readers who have requested their utter elimination. No prude, I feel that there is a place for nakedness, but that place is emphatically not on the cover of a weird fiction magazine. Your covers for the last three months, while not nudes, show little improvement. Half clad, in such a manner as to reveal rather than conceal, is no better than unclad. The sex idea is still there, and the idea of nudity is increasing among your interior illustrations at an alarming rate. You are making a grave mistake by continuing this policy. You are simply playing to the depraved tastes of a group of morons who subsist on the filth of that literary cesspool, sex literature. Being attracted by your sexy covers, they will buy one issue in the hope that the contents are in keeping therewith, and being disappointed, will not come back. Meanwhile, you will have fallen considerably in the esteem of those who read your magazine in search of a thrill, not an aphrodisiac. I agree with A. B. Leonard that the pictures usually illustrate a dramatic incident in one of the stories; but I am sure that if Mr. Brundage will examine the contents of each issue thoroughly, he can find plenty of dramatic incidents which do not center upon either an unclad or a half-clad woman. The true craftsman of weird fiction does not need to strip his characters in order to focus the reader’s attention upon them.”

Readers, what is your favorite story in this issue of Weird Tales? Three stories are in an exact tie as your favorite in our December issue, as shown by your votes and letters : Red Gauntlets of Czerni by Seabury Quinn, Abd Dhulma, Lord of Fire, by G. G. Pendarves, and The Lady in Gray by Donald Wandrei.

My favorite stories in the February WEIRD TALES are:

Storjr Remarks

( 1 )

( 2 )

(3)

I do not like die following stories:

(1) - Why?

( 2 )

r

It will help us to know what kind of ^ stories you want in Weird Tales if you I will fill out this coupon and mail it to |

The Eyrie, Weird Tales, 840 N. Michigan I Ave., Chicago, 111. I

Reader’s name and address:



The Solitary Hunters

( Continued from page 252)

a convict hugged securely to her shining breast. She seemed to carry her prey ■with the tarsal hook of her second pair ef legs, the first and third pair being free for the walking she would have to do on entering the tunnel.

As far as I could ascertain, five convicts were caught on that first raid. The food remained for the most part untouched. Gradually the men came out, peered into the sky, made a run for the food platform, grabbed a handful of food and ran like mad back to their huts.

King was depressed. He was just realizing what I had feared from the beginning. There had been a picture of a man running, with a wasp after him. And I thought it was a fake!

"I think that I understand this part of it,” the boss admitted. "I am no entomologist, but there is no doubt that these females turn carnivorous at a certain part of their lives. Here is lots of fresh meat, specially fattened for their benefit. Ugh.” He shook his shoulders. "It makes me feel bad. I saw a boa constrictor swallow a pig once, and it made me feel the same way, when the pig squealed. Do they eat them alive. Prince?”

"No. That is the worst part of it. They don’t kill them and they don’t eat them. They just sting them and inject a poison that stuns them, makes them unable to move, and that is when the end comes to them, a rather nasty and unpleasant end, but, fortunately, they are not able to realize it. At least, I hope they are not, but I don’t know for sure. Perhaps the fact that their muscles are paralyzed is no evidence that they can not

SEE LIFE

AS IT is!

The popular teachings of schools and churches color your vision. The truth is concealed. Real possibilities for your advancement in life are kept for the few. A power great enough to change your whole life is available if you find the key.

ROSICRUCIAN

SECRET WRITINGS

Will give you the true picture of life and the mysterious forces that await your command. You ■will find a different key to your personal problems and a simple way to more abundant realizations of your desires. For many centuries the Rosicrucian system has created a new life with new* possibilities for multitudes who are now happy and contented.

SEALED BOOK LOANED

If you are sincerely anxious to know life — and know your own powers — write a letter and ask for this new, private book. It will be gladly loaned to you if you are really seeking to change the course of your life. Address:

FRIAR K. Y. u.

iK))KRU(IAN

AM

ROTHERHOOD

^

JOSE C^IFORNIA

Remember the Rosicrucians are NOT a Religioot Organisation.

is on sale the 1st of every month

Thrills! Mystery! Excitement!

“THE MOON TERROR’*

(In Book Form)

SEE BACK COVER

Man Can Now Use

Strange Inner Power

New and Revolutionary Teaching Reveals Secret of Happiness and Financial Success Without Physical Effort

The story of a new and revolutionary teaching which reveals a strange inner power so dynamic and forceful that it can carry man to complete happiness, health and financial success is told in a 5,000word treatise, “Key to Your Inner Power,” recently compiled by Yogi Alpha, internationally known psychologist and philosopher.

He tells of his discovery that all the laws of the universe can be controlled because the laws themselves depend upon the great universal mind for their existence, that

every mind is part of this universal mind, and if you learn to use this universal energy it can almost overnight bring you everything you want without physical effort. He further proves that this power is not limited to a fortunate few, but is latent in every human being, regardless of training, education or environment. He convinces the reader that this secret key is so simple to understand and to apply that it is amazing that no one has found it before.

The author offers for a limited time to send this amazing treatise to readers of Weird Tales free of cost or obligation. It explains how you may receive this revolutionary teaching in your own home, and reveals the astounding secret, which, mastered, can enable you within the next few months to increase your earning power, attract new friends and make your '^sions of achievement, health and happinesl^ come true. For your free copy, address Psyclw-Ilogic- Institute, Box 98, Dept. 8-E, San Diego, California.

Play A Tune

In 10 Minutes

On your Spanish Guitar, Uke. Tenor Banjo, Mandolin or Banjo Mandolin. No knowledge of music necessary. No practice. Play first by num* ber, then by note. Simply attach E-Z Player to your favorite instrument — ^press numbered keys and play.

FREE

instruction book with numbered tunes and chords comes with every E-Z Player. Start playing popular tunes by numberright off the reel. Be the life of the party — the center of attraction — a radio star. Don’t wait. Write today for 7-Day Free Trial Offer. A postcard will do.

FERRY SPECIALTIES, INC., Dept. 232 Evanston, IlL

QUIT

TOBACCO

No man or woman can escape the harmful effects of tobacco. Don’t try to banish unaided the bold tobacco has upon you. Join the thousands of Inveterate tobacco users that have found it easy to Quit with the aid of the Eeeley Treatment.

Treatment For Tobacco Habit

Successful For Over 50 Years '

Quickly banish^ all craving for tobacco. Write today for Free Book telling ’bow to quickly Free yourself from the tobacco habit and our Money Back Guarantee.

Home of the famous Keel» Treatment for XJqnor and Dmn.' Booklet Sent on Request. Correspondaneo Strietlr Confidential.

THE KEEUEY INSTITUTE Dept. M.3I6 Dwight, llUnelS

KEELEY

Weird Tales is on sale the 1st of each month

ASTHMAve^

SUFFERING OVERCOME—GuicA;/y, Safely!

Ama-Gon, amazing new California home treatment, quickly stops Asthma, Bronchitis, Hay Fever suffering. Absolutely SAFE for young or oW. No matter how many remedies you have tried, Ama'Gon quickly overcomes that awful wheezing, choking sensation and enables 'you to ^'reathe FR^LY, EASILY again. Promotes sound, restful sleep.' 'We want YOU to prove its value to YOURSELF WITHOUT RISKING ONE CENT

avAvv ACCEPT 8-DAY TRIAL OFFER .

COUPON r^A-GON LABORATORIES, ~

Mntii cAo I Dept. 70, 1100 N. Vermont, Los Angeles, California.' now rOK I Accept S-DAY TRIAL OFFE R, and FREE Book

F ree I Asthma, Bronchitis, Hay Fever, WITHOUT COST.

BOOK I Name — — —

BRONCHITIS

BEFORE AFTER

I Address....

..City..

Sleeps Soundly NOW!

“I suffered.! 5 yrs. with Bronchial Astlmia,*' w^ote Mrs. R. Chavet, 280 S. Palm St.,' Ventura, Calif., *'Tried everything without relief. After using 1 Vi bottles of Ama' Gon Ifeel like a new person. Got rid of my wheezing and howsle^ soundly the whole night thru.

Was It Some Strange Phantom Whispering Through the Ether in the Language of Another Planet

strange and ghostly signals were being picked up out of the ether. What were these weird whispers? What happened when science became fully aware of the existence of some new and sinister — or at least unfathomed — force in the world ? The solution is thrlllingly narrated in one of the most startling stories ever written — iThe Moon Terror.

FREE BOOK

For a limited time, the publishers of Weird Tales are giving this book away with each six months’ subscription to the magazine. Simply send $1.50, the regular six months’ subscription price for Weird Tales, and this book is yours without further cost. You receive the magazine for six months and this book is sent to you free of charge.

Limited Supply

This offer may be withdrawn at any time, so we advise you to order now. Remember, the supply of books is limited.^ Send today!


840 N. Michigan Ave., Dept. S-43, Chicago, 111.

pWKIKD TALES, Dept. S-43,

! 840 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago, 111.

I I enclose $1.50. Send at once, postage prepaid, I the book “The Moon Terror,” and enter my subI scription to WEIRD TALES for six months to

( begin with the March issue. It is understood this $1.50 is payment in full.

I Kame

I Address

I City State

m


mXT MONTH

The

Black Gargoyle

By HUGH B. CAVE

A TALE of goose-flesh horror in the jungles of Borneo — a story of stark terror and tlie strange doom that overtook an evil white man. This is a story to make your blood run cold and send ripples of horripilation up and down your spine.

H ere you have the author of "The Brotherhood of Blood” and "Dead Man’s Belt” at his superb best. The tale is redolent of the weird mystery of the Malay jungles, and the terror that strikes in the blackness of night. Mr. Cave has written a tale that you will not soon forget — a tale that grows in horror and fascination to the last word. It will be printed complete

in the March issue of


On sale March 1st

To avoid missing your copy, clip and mail this coupon today for SPECIAL SUBSCRIPTION OFFER.

WBIKD TALX^

*40 N. Michigan Avo.,

Chicago, 111.

Eticlosod And $1.00 for which send me the next five issues of WEIRD TALES to begin with the March issue ($1.75 in Canada). Special offer void unless remittance is accompanied by coupon.

Name —

Address —

City State

think, or appreciate their surrounding.”

King started to pace up and down the little hut.

"I can not stand it any longer, Prince. I am no coward, but I am not going to wait here and starve to death or .die the way you say. An idea came to me a few days ago and here is where I make use of it. Did you notice those galvanized iron cans on the food platform? They come up full, and, if the boys get a chance, they go down empty. They are big things and have a tight cover. I am going down in one.”

"Yes?”

"And down there, in some way, I am going to get into the big house.”

Thrills and sensations a-plenty await you in the concluding chapters of this story in next month’s Weird Tales.

Uhe

^ r

antern

By HUNG LONG TOM

Before me

Lies a silk

And paper lantern.

The table is teakwood With pearl inlaid.

The lantern shaped Like a pagoda.

And as I gaze thereon A little lady Walks slowly Down the steps And bows before me.

There is no light Within the lantern burning.. The light is from the eyes Of my Pagoda Girl.

W.T.— 8

[THE END]
