============================================================
Weird Tales
Volume 25, Number 4
Date: April 1935
============================================================
============================================================
TABLE OF CONTENTS

  1. "Lord  of  the  Lamia  (part  2) , . ." by Otis  Adelbert  Kline
  2. "The  New  World Richard  F" by Searight
============================================================
============================================================
LORD OF THE LAMIA (PART 2),..
by Otis Adelbert Kline
============================================================
Long, long ago, but yet.

Despite the distance I have gone,

I can not quite forget.

of the Lamia

By OTIS ADELBERT KLINE

John Tane, archeologist, was not afraid of man or beast, but he faced a baffling, sinister mystery in ancient Cairo

The Story Thus Par

fOHN TANE, young archeologist and explorer, rents a house in Cairo from Doctor Schneider, a German archeologist, intending to marry and bring his bride there to live. But scarcely has he paid over the rent money when a Moslem fimeral procession enters the place. Despite his protests, the coffin, presumably containing the body of a saint, is walled up in one end of the main reception room.

That night, Tane and his servant are drugged by the doctor, but the former aw^ens in his bedroom, and goes downstairs. In a room next to the one in which the saint was interred, he sees a Persian reading a strange litany before a niche lighted by two candles. He addresses the stranger courteously, but the Persian attacks him.

Tane wins the fight, and the Persian flees. Then the archeologist examines the scroll the intruder was reading, and finds it contains a magic formula written in ancient Egyptian characters. He reads it aloud, and finds that it is a charm for raising the dead. As he puts down the scroll, he sees a coffin inside the niche, and realizes it is the one brought into the house a few hours before. The lid is off, and instead of a corpse, he sees that it contains a mummy-case on which is depicted a beautiful girl. He removes the lid of the mummy-case, and finds a cobra wrapped in muslin bandages of tremendous age. Curiously he unwraps the bandages, and finds the serpent in a per448

feet state of preservation, its head resting in a golden diadem.

The cobra suddenly comes to life. One candle bums out, and the snake knocks over the other, leaving the room in darkness. Tane lights a match and discovers that the cobra is gone, but that Doctor Schneider has been knocked out, and is lying beneath a pile of rugs and cushions on the divan. The doctor persuades him to look for the serpent, and he finds that the doorkeeper has been slain. When he returns to the room, the niche has been closed, and the panel appears to have a solid wall behind it. The doctor tells him the thing was all a drug dream. They argue, and the doctor goes out, returning with four native policemen, accusing him of murdering the doorman. Tane fights the policemen, but is overcome by Hagg Nadeem, an Egyptian official, who places him under arrest but courteously invites him to spend the night in his own home instead of the vermin-infested jail.

The story continues:

6. The Visitation

IN ITS arrangement, the house of Hagg Nadeem was quite similar to the one Tane had rented some hours before, but much more luxuriously appointed. As he sat in the reception room, sipping a sherbet and smoking one of his host’s long oriental cigarettes, his eyes strayed from one to another of the priceless objects of antique art which the room contained.

This story begran in WEIRD TAI^ES for March

W. T.— 3



"I had not heard that, among other things, you were a connoisseur of antiques,” said Tane.

"These things? Mere trifles. Some day, inshallah, I will show you my private museum.” He smiled his sweet, dreamy smile. "But now, effendi, I should be infinitely obliged to you if you would relate to me, in detail, everything that happened after you called on Doctor Schneider yesterday afternoon, to rent his house. I know that you are weary, and need rest. At the same time, please realize that you are accused of a serious crime. If you are innocent, the quickest way you can aid me W. T.— 4

in learning the truth is by telling all you know.”

"I have nothing to conceal, though some of the things I have to relate may sound fantastic — even unbelievable,” Tane replied.

"Please let me be the judge of that, e^endi. Proceed.”

The American related his story in detail— his payment of the gold to Doctor Schneider, his awakening near midnight with the unmistakable signs of having been drugged, his encounter with the hawk-nosed Persian, the incident of the scroll, the mummy-case and the serpent.



his finding of the injured doctor, and the latter’s subsequent treachery.

"Did you tell Doctor Schneider that you had read the scroll aloud over the mummy-case and then unwrapped the haje?" asked Nadeem when he had finished.

"I did,” Tane replied, "but he evidently thought that part of it all a hashish dream. He almost succeeded in convincing me that this was the case, also — would have done so, in fact, if it hadn’t been for this.” Reaching into his pocket, he produced the bit of candle wax he had found on the floor and passed it to his host.

The latter sniffed at it and tested its hardness with his thumb-nail.

"Looks genuine enough,” he said. "I’ll have it analyzed and checked microscopically, though, to make sure.”

"To make sure of what? What do you mean?”

"’This,” said the hagg, "is evidently a bit of one of the candles used by the high priests of a certain secret sect of ancient times, when practising a branch of their black art — specifically that of raising the dead. These candles were made from the fat of virgins secretly sacrificed before the crocodile god, Sebek. This fat was mixed with beeswax in which had been incorporated several potent drugs and a compound of aromatic resins, gums and essential oils.”

"Good Lord!” exclaimed Tane. "You don’t mean that innocent young women were actually slaughtered to make these candles! Why, I have been studying the ancient records for years, and never heard of such a tiling. If this is true. I’ll have to admit that you are far better informed than I on the doings of the ancient Egyptians, despite my years of study and research.”

, "There are reasons why I should be so

informed,” replied Nadeem, passing him the gold-and-ivory cigarette box. "It happens that I am directly descended from a high priest of Sebek. Despite the fact that I am a Muslim, a believer in the one true God, as have been my ancestors for many generations, the ancient documents of my forebears have been passed down from seventh son to seventh son intact. It appears that I have been the first of the line with the temerity to break the ancient seals and examine them, since the conversion of the family to the faith of al Islam,”

Tane selected and lighted a cigarette. "You have no idea,” he said, "how intensely interesting all this is to me. I presume that none but a seventh son of a seventh son of your house would be permitted to examine the documents.”

Nadeem smiled his sweet, pensive smile. "Unfortunately, that is quite true. In fact, there is an ancient curse laid upon the custodian who allows them to fall into alien hands — a curse which would bring a horrible doom not only upon the desecrator, but upon my family in all its branches.”

"And you believe in the efficaqr of the curse?”

Nadeem shrugged. "I shoiBd dislike to test its power. There have been numerous instances, within your memory and mine, in which people have suffered death, sudden and inexplicable, after defying such a curse. It will be a long time before the world forgets what happened to the desecrators of the tomb of Tutankh-Amen, son of Amen-hetep the Fourth, which was protected by such a curse.”

"It is my belief that these, and all other similar instances, can be traced to natural causes,” said Tane.

"Mine also,” replied the Egyptian.



"Has it ever occurred to you that such a curse might operate through natural channels?”

"Can’t say I ever thought of it in that way.”

"In many things the ancients were better informed than are we,” Nadeem said. "And while I grant you that there is nothing really supernatural, that all things must take place in accord with the laws of Nature, or Allah, it is my belief that these ancient priests and master magicians— the genuine adepts — were in possession of a number of scientific truths which gave them tremendous power over the uninitiated, and which have not been rediscovered by our modern scientists. I do not claim that they really understood all the natural laws they put into effect in performing their so-called miracles and feats of magic. However, they had much leisure for study and experiment, and learning that certain causes produced certain mysterious effects, made use of them.”

"I can’t think of any application of natural law which would explain my weird experience of this evening,” said Tane. "I would prefer to believe that the greater part of it was a drug dream, but the presence of the carbon spots in the top of the niche and a bit of candle wax on the rug is evidence that at least part of the experience was real. It is difficult for me to believe that a serpent, dead for five thousand years, should suddenly come to life and crawl away because of the reading of a bit of mummery over it, accompanied by the burning of two candles made from the fat of virgins. That’s too preposterous for any sane man to swallow.”

"A true scientist,” said Hagg Nadeem, "weighs every fact with which he comes in contact before drawing a conclusion. If he is in search of tmth, he can not afford to ignore a single fact, however absurd or

illogical it may seem. In this case, you are basing your assumption on the hypothesis that it was a real haje you saw and handled, when what you actually saw may have been something entirely different, temporarily assuming the shape of a haje.”

'"That would be preposterous.”

"Not necessarily. You are, I take it, familiar with the Lamia legends.”

"Of course. A great English poem was based on them.”

"I know. Lamia, by Keats. His picture of Lamia, the brightly colored female serpent that transforms herself into a beautiful girl, conforms to the ancient belief — or superstition, if you will — of the deadly, beautiful creatures called Lamias, half woman, half serpent, who visited men in their sleep, sometimes to make love to them, sometimes to drain them of their vitality, and often, in the end, to slay them, drinking their blood or devouring their flesh.”

"A superstition undoubtedly evoked by the desire dreams of some ancient, lovelorn swains,” said Tane.

"Not necessarily. It is recorded that one of these creatures once ruled all Libya. In fact, her name was Lamia, and that is why all such have subsequently been called ’Lamias’.”

"I’ve heard of that, also,” Tane told him. "It is said that, to this day, Greek mothers frighten their children into obedience by mentioning her name.”

"Precisely. And it seems that a belief which has endured so persistently through the ages must have some foundation in fact. Perhaps there were, and are, such things as Lamias.”

"At least the ancient scroll and crown I saw, if I really saw them, seem to confirm the fact that there was once a queen of Libya by that name, who claimed to be


:WEIRD TALES

the daughter of a god and a royal princess.”

"That is true.” Hagg Nadeem snuflFed his cigarette and stood up. "And it follows that since you read the scroll and unwrapped the serpent, you may have an opportunity to learn whether there was or is such a creature, and if so, whether she will live up to the promise made on the scroll, to become the slave of the man who awakens her. I will leave you, now, to a well-earned rest. Since I can not invite you up into my hareem, this will serve as your bedroom. Sleep as late as you like. The guards and servants will have orders not to disturb you. If you have need of anything, clap your hands. And I’ll see you tomorrow. Just now, I have important work to do. Hadrak.”

"Ma sedam,” Tane replied.

As SOON as his host disappeared 1. through the doorway, the American went to the window and peered out. A sentry, with rifle and fixed bayonet, paced just below him. He went to the courtyard door and looked tlirough the interstice between the curtains. Another guard stood there. A third door led into a narrow hallway, lighted by the yellow rays of a brass lamp. And seated at the end of the hall with every evidence of alertness was a third armed guard.

Returning to the diwan, Tane sat down. He decided that an attempt to escape would be foolish, futile, and dangerous. After all, where could he go to help his case in any way? To escape to the American consulate now would do him no good, even if it were possible of accomplishment. He would be traced and compelled to return to answer the murder charge, anyway. The diwan was most inviting, and he was very tired and exceedingly sleepy. With a yawn, he began to undress. A few moments later, clad only in his shorts, he blew out the

light and settled down among the cushions and coverlets. Shortly thereafter, he fell asleep.

It seemed to Tane that he had scarcely closed his eyes in slumber, when he suddenly became wide awake. The moon had set, and the room was shrouded in that deceptive darkness which precedes the dawn, the various objects looming up as bulky shadows. He could see nothing amiss, yet he had an inexplicable premonition of danger — of some alien presence in the room. He held his breath and listened. A faint rustling sound came from the mashrabiyeh window, and he strained his eyes through the gloom to learn the cause. Suddenly he detected a movement, a wriggling sinuous motion through one section of the lattice. Good Heaven! It was a snake — a huge, mottled haje with scales that gleamed dully!

He strove to cry out, but could not make a sound. Then he tried to sit up, preparatory to running out the door and calling the guard, but found that he could not so much as move a finger. Such experiences had been his before, in dreams, but this, he was convinced, was no dream. The snake slithered down from the lattice and disappeared in the gloom beneath the window. The rustling sound now continued on the floor, and the fact that Tane could no longer see the reptile, made its approach immensely more terrifying. Again he made a desperate attempt to shout or move, but in vain. A cold sweat bedewed his forehead, and he was oppressed by a feeling of suffocation. The suspense of lying there, waiting for death to strike him from the shadows, was horrible, enervating. He almost wished the haje would sink its venomous fangs into his flesh and end it all. It was thus that the incomparable Cleopatra had found swift surcease from her troubles, ages before.



In breathless silence he waited for that hooded head to rear itself above the edge of the diwan. But instead of the serpent’s head he was suddenly aware of something light-colored, and faintly luminous, moving upward from the floor. It was a pair of plumes — the two feathers of truth! They nodded above a diadem, fronted by a urasus with glittering jeweled eyes. And beneath the diadem, there slowly materiali2ed the face and form of the girl he had seen depicted on the lid of the mummycase. She appeared to be draped in something white and filmy, which revealed every line of her slender, perfect figure.

"Who are you? What are you?” he tried to ask. But his voice would not function. He could not so much as whisper.

Although he could not hear his own voice, the figure seemed to hear it — or read his thoughts — for she answered him, her voice low and musical. And the language she used was that of ancient Egypt.

"Don’t you know me, lord of my awakening? I am Lamia, once proud Queen of Libya, and now — ^your slave. I am still weak, for this is the first night, and so I can not serve you yet. But I will gain strength in the manner you and all adepts know, and then you may command my service and my power. You are in great danger, my master — such danger as will tax our combined efforts to thwart. I go now, to gain strength, but I will return and watdi over you.”

Slowly, soundlessly, she sank downward until only the nodding plumes showed above the rim of the diwan. Then these disappeared. Shortly thereafter there was a rustling sound at the window. He caught a flash of gleaming scales on a serpentine body that wriggled swiftly through the lattice-work.

For some time Tane lay there, listening. But the only sounds that came to his

ears were the heavy tread of the sentry below the window, and the occasional matutinal crowing of the restless cocks of the neighborhood. Suddenly he discovered that he could move once more. He sat up, found his matclies, and lighted the lamp. Its yellow rays shone to every corner of the room and revealed — nothing.

Sleep, he found, was impossible. He smoked cigarette after cigarette in a fruitless effort to soothe his jangled nerves. Presently, after what seemed ages of waiting, the dawn came. He blew out the lamp, settled down once more on the diwan, and presently fell into a troubled sleep.

7. Kidnapped

Tane awoke and sat up, bathed in perspiration. He glanced at his watch. It was twelve o’clock, and the air quivered in the stifling noonday heat. "Then a huge negro, who had been standing before one of the curtained doorways, said:

"I have drawn a cold bath for you, sidi. Will you step this way?”

"Will I!” Tane leaped to his feet, and followed the black giant through the doorway, down a hallway, and into a modern, tiled bathroom. A cold tub and a brisk rub-down made him feel like a new man. The negro brought him shaving things, and when he had finished, came in with his clothing, freshly pressed. As soon as he was dressed, the black man said:

"This way, sidi,”

The servant conducted him back into the reception room. There he saw Hagg Nadeem seated on a diwan with a taboret before him.

"Salam deykum,” he greeted. "Aleykum salam," replied Nadeem. "Will you breakfast with me? I, too, have just arisen.”



"With pleasure, hagg."

The Egyptian clapped his hands, and a servant entered with a huge tray containing iced watermelon, eggs, toast, grilled fish, and a pot of spiced, sweetened coffee.

"Bismillah," said the hagg, piously, as he attacked his watermelon. "With health and appetite.”

For some time they addressed themselves to their food in silence, after the oriental custom. Then, after they had rinsed their hands beneath a ewer brought by a servant, dried them, and lighted cigarettes, Nadeem said;

"I just received some good news for you from the kadi. It seems that Doctor Schneider appeared this morning and withdrew his accusation of murder against you. He said that he, too, had been drugged last evening, in addition to the blow on the head, but that now, since his faculties are clearer, he believes your story about the Persian.”

"Drugged. So that’s it. I wondered why he acted so queerly last evening. By the way, I had a curious experience after I retired. Sort of a vision, or dream. I seemed to be awake, and yet I couldn’t make a move or a sound.”

"Interesting. And what did you see?”

Tane told him.

"Waha!” exclaimed the Egyptian. "And you call that a dream?”

"What do you mean?”

"At midnight, in the full of the moon, you read the mystic incantation aloud over the mummy-case of the ancient Queen of Libya, by the light of two magic candles. Then you opened the case and unwrapped the mummy. It is prophesied in the ancient writings that the man who does these tilings becomes Lamia’s lord.”

’"rhen you believe that what I thought I did and saw last night was real?”

"As real as this bit of candle wax, which is your only physical evidence. Yet

small and insignificant as it is, it is enough to disprove the drug-dream theory, for such dreams do not materialize substance.”

"That is true enough. Then you think that I am ”

"Lord of the Lamia.”

Tane looked at him in astonishment. "I can’t believe it. I won’t. It’s all too incredible— ^too uncanny. Such things can’t be.”

"It may be that future developments will prove you wrong,” said the hagg, solemnly. "We know nothing of the natures of these creatures called Lamias, or their powers or tenacity to life. Coldblooded animals are notoriously difficult to kill, particularly serpents. There is an authentic record of a frog found alive in the wall of an old building, where it had been imprisoned without food or water for many years.”

"But,” said Tane, "assuming that a serpent did remain in a state of suspended animation for five thousand years, you still have the inexplicable phenomenon of that serpent changing to the semblance of a woman and returning to its original form, all in the course of a few moments.”

"Even that,” said Hagg Nadeem, "is not so difficult to believe as it might appear on first thought. I take it that you, like most scientists, hold to the theory of organic evolution.”

"We use it as a woridng hypothesis,” Tane replied. "Things happen as if it were true.”

"Exactly. You believe that your ancestors in the dim and distant past were once reptiles.”

"So it would appear.”

"Even the science of embryology furnishes analogical proof of this. For, at one stage of its development, the human embryo resembles a young salamander.”

"'That is true.”



"You will grant me, then, that the evolutionists believe a reptile gradually turned into a human being — say over a period of many millions of years. And the embryologists tell us that a reptilian form, under proper conditions, becomes a human form in the course of a few months.”

"Of course.”

"Then, effendi, I submit that there is but one difference between what your scientists tell us, and what you say you witnessed last night. That difference is 'time’. You saw, or appeared to see, a reptile become a human being. The evolutionists say this has happened. The embryologists say it still happens. Yet you did not believe the evidence of your senses because it happened so quickly.”

"But,” said Tane, "the girl appeared to change back to the serpent form once more.”

"Why not.’ Combine two gases, oxygen and hydrogen, in the correct proportion, and under the proper conditions, and they become water. Treat the water with an electrical current, placing a receptacle over the anode and one over the cathode, and you reverse the process, for in the one you will find oxygen and in the other, hydrogen. The water has changed back to its original form. The time required for the change depends only on the dispatch with which the process is applied.”

"You have offered analogical proof,” said Tane, "but nothing more.”

"Permit me to remind you,” smiled Nadeem, "that your own scientists have offered nothing more than analogical proof for a biological theory which many of them believe religiously — the theory of evolution. However, time will reveal what is true and what is false. And in the meantime, let me warn you that your life is in grave danger. Here is the gun,” handing him the forty-five, "which I took

from you last evening. Keep it constantly within reach, and be ever on your guard.”

"May I ask,” queried Tane, "from whom or from what I am in danger? I have injured no one. Why should anyone wish to kill me?”

"You are Lord of the Lamia. Hence there are those who envy you and will try to supplant you. She will be your greatest protector, and will watch over you. But she is not invulnerable. I, too, shall watch, and do what I can. But you must help yourself. You have a saying: 'The Lord helps those who help themselves.’ It will be wise for you to live up to it in this respect. I presume that you will want to get settled in your new home today, so I will not detain you longer. The doctor, I understand, moved out this morning. I will send a man with you to show you the way.”

"I do have a devil of a lot to attend to — servants to hire, furnishings to buy, and all that. So, if you will excuse me. I’ll be on my way.”

Nadeem clapped his hands, and a short, dark-skinned fellah appeared.

"You will conduct Tane Effendi to his home, Mahmud,” he ordered.

"Good-bye. Thanks for the hospitality — and the warning,” said Tane, as he followed the servant out the door.

"Ma salam,” replied Hagg Nadeem, smiling sweetly.

Tane found his servant, Ali, seated on the bench beside the door of his empty house, smoking his chibouk. He dismissed his guide with a coin, and entered, Ali at his heels.

"There have been many people here seeking employment, sidi/' said the Syrian, when they reached the reception room. "Also there came merchants with rugs, mattresses, pipes, utensils and other household articles, having heard that you



had moved in without furniture. But I told them all to retium later.”

Tane sat down wearily on the edge of the cushionless diwan, and lighted a cigarette.

"We’ll just camp here for today," he said. "Tomorrow will be time enough to see about servants and begin buying the furniture. Just get a couple of mattresses, a rug apiece, some food, and such utensils and dishes as you will need to prepare and serve it.” He rose and handed his servant five pounds. "Lock the door as you go out, so I won’t be disturbed by peddlers and job-hunters.”

After he had finished his cigarette, Tane decided to have another look at the mysterious niche which had baffled him so completely, and to explore those parts of the house which he had not previously seen. He accordingly went through the now airtainless doorway, into the room where his strange adventures had taken place. Divested of its rugs and furnishings it had a bare and forbidding look, and despite the brightness of the noonday sun, he had, on entering it, an eery feeling of impending danger — of some lurking, sinister presence.

An examination of the niche revealed the same thing he had last seen — the ancient brick wall flush against the panels as before. But from behind that wall there now came, faintly but unmistakably, a charnel odor that was suggestive of the presence of an unembalmed corpse. So disagreeable was this effluvium that he was glad to close the panels again, pausing only to re-examine the points above where the candles had stood. To his surprize, he now found no carbon there, though he distinctly remembered having previously soiled his finger with soot in examining it. But no matter what he had seen in that niche before, his olfactory nerves convinced him that a corpse was now entombed within it.

Passing thence into the hallway once more, he came to the bathroom. Here, everything loose had been removed, and the mirror door of the medicine cabinet stood open, revealing its emptiness. He was about to go on, when a flash of color attracted his eye — a bright bit of something red and gold, which lay on the tile floor. Bending, he picked it up. It was a piece of wood, gilded and lacquered, which had evidently been split off an ancient mummy-case.

After minutely examining it, he dropped it into his pocket. It was undoubtedly part of a mummy-case — perhaps the very case he had viewed the night before.

Returning to the hallway, he walked on toward the kitchen. But suddenly, just as he stepped through the doorway, the thick smothering folds of a burnoose were thrown over his head, two pairs of powerful arms pinioned his, and he was tripped and thrown to the floor.

8. The Oasis

Tane struggled fiercely but futilely in the clutches of his captors. Thqr quickly found and removed his gun, and bound his wrists and ankles with ropes that bit painfully into the flesh. The cloak, which was strongly redolent of camel, was kept over his head. And with a knife pricking the flesh over his heart, one of his captors warned him that unless he kept silent he would be instantly slain. He was then rolled up in a rug, lifted to the shoulders of three men, and carried off.

He heard a door open, then guessed by the way he was being tilted, that his unknown captors were taking him down a stairway. He judged from their whis pered conversation and the sounds of their footsteps that there were at least six of them. They walked on a level surLORD OF THE LAMIA


face for some distance, then tilted him again, this time evidently carrying him up a stairway. Another door opened. A moment later, he was stowed away in what appeared to be a camel litter. A man seated in the litter with him pricked him with a knife and again warned him to be silent. Then he heard the cameleer alternately coaxing and cursing the beast, until it arose with many snorting, grunting protests. The litter gave a lurch, then settled down to a steady, swaying motion as the great beast started off.

At first Tane knew by the sounds about him that they were passing through the bazars, probably along the Sukten Nahhasi toward the Bab al Fotun, for he heard the mueddins calling the Faithful to the thur, or noon prayer, from the minarets of the many mosques clustered in this vicinity.

Some time later he heard a traveler inquire if this were the Bab al Hasaniyeh, and a reply in the affirmative, which told him that he had passed out of Cairo and was probably on the Abbasiyeh Road. Where, he wondered, could his mysterious captors be taking him? And why? He had been a fool to allow himself to be caught thus off his guard. Hagg Nadeem had warned him. But who wofuld have thought to find enemies hiding in his house? And hov/ could they have gotten in with Ali guarding the door?

As he pondered these questions, he presently noticed that all road-sounds had ceased, and that the thudding of the camels’ feet was muffled, as if with sand. Apparently, they had turned ofiF the highway into the desert.

Tane’s bonds, now perspiration-soaked, chafed and stung his wrists almost unbearably. And the stifling heat engendered a keen thirst that added to his torment. But the camel lurched on and on, hour after hour, until Tane’s wrists and ankles grew numb and he sank into a

half -smothered lethargy — a hideous nightmare of heat and thirst and torture.

Presently, when it seemed that he had reached the limit of his endurance, the endless swaying ceased, and Tane heard the cameleer’s guttural "Ikh! Ikh!" as he commanded the beast to kneel. The animal lurched downward, grunted, and came to rest.

After Tane had been dragged from the litter and unrolled from the rug, the smothering cloak was removed from his head, and he saw his captors — six lean, dark-skinned, black-bearded Bedouins. One bent and unbound his ankles. Then two others caught him by the elbows, cruelly wrenching his bound wrists, and jerked him to his feet.

He swayed dizzily between the two kidnappers, and looked about him. They had halted at a small oasis, a shallow waterhole and a few palm trees, surrounded by the billowing sands of the Libyan Desert. Over beyond the waterhole a guard, silhouetted by the rays of the setting sun, leaned on a long rifle, watching a half-dozen camels. And near at hand a dozen of his fellpws squatted about a campfire, smoking and chatting. Behind them was a large tent, the front wall of which had been raised to admit the evening breeze.

At this instant, the old man emerged from the tent. With a start, Tane recognized him as Shaykh Ibrahim, the darwish, who had conducted the funeral. With chin held high, he chanted the etdan mughareb, the call to the sunset prayer. Instantly, all the ruffians except the camel guard and the two men who held Tane, rushed to the pool to make their wuddu ablutions. These finished, they faced Mecca, while the shaykh led them in prayer.

Prayers over, the old man rose from his rug, and, turning, entered the tent. Tane’s two captors dragged him forward.



and into the tent, at the back of which the old darwish was seated on a mattress, smoking the narghile from which he had weaned himself long enough to perform the pious office of imam. As the American was hauled up before the shaykh, the swarthy Bedouins crowded in behind him, and seated themselves on either side, along the tent walls. All glared at him with open hostility, and there were muttered imprecations of "Infidel! Christian!” and "Dog of a Frank!” Though his throat was parched and his tongue was so dry it rattled against the roof of his mouth, Tane knew better than to ask for a drink of water. These ruffians meant him no good; hence they would give him nothing either to eat or drink. For if they were to give either and then slay him they would violate their desert code — the law of the salt. He resolved to face it out boldly, asking nothing of them, and if need be, show these hard-bitten cutthroats than an American could die as bravely as any of them.

The old shaykh passed the flexible stem of his pipe to the man at his right, and squinted up at the tall young man standing before him.

"I have been informed that you are Lord of the Lamia,” he said in Arabic. "Is this true?”

"And if I am, what then?” replied Tane, defiantly returning his gaze.

"You have meddled in an affair which does not concern you — have stolen a privilege and seized a power which does not belong to you — a privilege for which my comrades and I have fought and bled and labored. We demand that you renounce this power in our favor.”

"Suppose I do not choose to do so.” "The alternative,” said the shaykh, slowly, "is death by impalement, a horrible, lingering death which can profit no one. I am sure you will prefer to give us

back our Lamia, and leave this place, free and unharmed, with a present of a thousand gold pounds.”

"How do I know that you would keep your word?”

"We are pious Muslims, and will all swear to it by the triple oath.”

Tane knew full well that no true Muslim would break the triple oath: "Wallah! THlah! Bill ah!” And he shuddered to think of the form of death reserved for him if he refused this demand, as he observed a man at his left carefully sharpening the end of a long stake. After all, what did this intangible, ephemeral creature called a Lamia mean to him? He was not sure that she was more than a druginduced dream. And, no matter what she was, it would be a relief to be rid of her.

"Swear the oath,” he said.

The shaykh swore first. He was followed by each of the men, even the camel guard, who was temporarily relieved from duty for the purpose, until all had pledged their irrevocable word to set Tane free with a camel and a thousand gold pounds as soon as he should transfer his lordship of the Lamia to the shaykh.

This ceremony completed, the old darwish clapped his hands, and one of the men brought a small taboret, which he set before his leader. On it was a box, which the old man opened, and from which he took two candles and a scroll. He set a candle on either side of the table, and placed the scroll in the center. At the same time one of Tane’s captors slashed his bonds, and another placed a rug for him before the taboret.

"Be seated,” invited the shaykh.

Tane sat down.

"And now,” went on Shaykh Ibrahim, "you will light the two candles and read the upper passage on the scroll, which summons the Lamia. When she appears.



you will read the lower passage, which conveys her from you to me.”

He handed Tane a box of matches, and the latter lit the two candles. By their yellow light, he made out two groups of hieroglyphic characters on the scroll.

"Read,” commanded the shaykh.

"First bring me a drink of water,” Tane requested. "My throat is so dry it is difiScult for me to speak.”

The water was brought and he drank slowly, meanwhile scanning the first group of hieroglyphics. In ancient Egyptian, they commanded Lamia, Queen of Libya, to appear before him. Of course she wouldn’t appear, he thought. What then.^ What would these desperadoes do? Still, he was committed to this course. There was nothing for it but to go on with the ceremony.

Patiently, the shaykh waited until Tane had drained the last drop of water from the cup. Then he commanded:

"Read.”

Slowly, sonorously, Tane read the ancient words. He reached the end and paused expectantly. A hush had come over the entire assemblage. They, too, were waiting expectantly, and somewhat fearfully. For five minutes they waited soundlessly, but nothing happened. Then the old shaykh spoke.

"Dog!” he rasped. "You have betrayed us. You have not read the words correctly. We will give you one more chance. Read, and if the Lamia does not appear, I swear that we will hoist you on the stake.”

"I have read them just as they are written here,” Tane remonstrated. "However, I may have made some slight mistake in pronunciation. I’ll try again.”

Once more he pronounced the words of that ancient language. And once more, for some minutes, nothing followed but silence.

"O consort of camels and spawn of a disease!” shrieked the darwish. "Again you have betrayed us. Seize him, men, and place him upon the stake.”

But before any of them could move to carry out the order of their leader, a strange thing happened. A tiny slit appeared in the tent wall behind Shayldi Ibrahim. 'Then a sinuous, glittering something wriggled through and with a swift dart fastened itself on the old man’s wrist. For a moment it hung there in plain view of all; then as swiftly as it had come, it shot back through the opening and disappeared from view. The shaykh glanced at the hideous black-andyellow thing that had clamped on his wrist — ^horrified unbelief written on his features. Then, as it withdrew, he collapsed soundlessly, his head sagging on the taboret between the two candles.

"The Lamia!” someone cried. "She came, but only to avenge her lord.”

"She will slay us all,” moaned another.

A third man leaped up and ran shrieking from the tent. As he did so, the canvas wall was suddenly rent from top to bottom. Through the opening stepped the slender, regal figure Tane had seen in his dreams. She was enveloped from head to foot in a shimmering diaphanous veil that was like a phosphorescent mist, surrounding and but slightly dimming her lovely features and seductive curves. It was the first time Tane had seen her so beautiful.

But if the Bedouins were impressed by her 'loveliness, they did not linger to admire. As one man, they sprang to their feet and ran howling out into the night.

"Follow them, my lord,” said the lovely apparition. "See that not one man remains on the oasis.”

'Though he was loth to tear his eyes from that witching vision, Tane obeyed. Standing before the door of the tent, he watched the Bedouins frantically mount460


ing their camels and riding away, until no one remained. Then he turned and re-entered the tent. To his surprize, he found it deserted, save for the body of the old shaykh, whose grizzled head still rested on the taboret between the two guttering candles. With a muttered exclamation of amazement, he ran to the back of the tent and peered out through the slit in the wall. Behind it there was no one. Nothing but the tall, shadowy palm trees, their fronds rustling gently in the breeze. And beyond them, the rolling desert. From behind a distant dune he thought he heard the roar of a lion. Or was it an airplane motor.? Sorely puzzled, he stood there, straining his eyes into the night. But he whirled, suddenly apprehensive, at sound of a human voice behind him.

Hagg nadeem, wearing his green turban and brown burnoose, was standing in the middle of the tent, leaning on his Malacca stick and smiling his sweet, dreamy smile.

"Salam deykum, effendi," he said, pleasantly. "You have come quite a way from home.”

"Not purposely,” Tane replied. "I can assure you of that.”

"So I was informed,” replied the hagg. “Thinking you might not find it comfortable here, I came to take you back. No doubt you are hungry and thirsty. I have brought you food, and a thermos bottle of coffee.”

"Allah yukhleff aleyka," Tane thanked him. "Lead me to it.”

"One moment, effendi. Patience is of Allah the Most High, but haste is of Shaitan the Stoned. First let me have a brief look around.”

Swiftly the Egyptian strode over to where the shaykh’s head lolled on the taboret. Stooping, he examined the man’s wrist by the light of the sputtering candles. Tane, looking over his shoulder, saw two tiny punctures surrounded by a purple discoloration on the bony wrist.

"Waha! Snake-bite!” he exclaimed.

"Yes. It was a big black-and-yellow haje,” Tane replied. “We all saw it quite plainly.”

"That scum of the bazars I saw riding away must have seen something fearful to send them scurrying so swiftly.”

"She appeared,” Tane told him.

"You mean Lamia?”

"I don’t know whom or what I mean.”

"Still the careful scientist — the stubborn doubter — after all this! Your people have a saying that we believe only what we wish to believe, and it is evident that you do not wish to credit the evidence of your own eyes. However, in this case, I judge that you were not the only one who saw her.”

"The others certainly acted as if they had seen her.”

"Hm.” Nadeem raised the grizzled head of the shaykh and removed the parchment. "Ah! Interesting. They compelled you to read this, no doubt.”

"With a threat of impalement.”

"Exactly. And they would have carried out the threat had you not complied. I know these ruffians. But come. There is no profit in lingering here any longer. You will be wanting that coffee and food. It is a long ride back to Cairo, but I have brought a swift, easy-gaited racing-camel with a comfortable litter. Or perhaps,” with his dreamy smile, "I should have said that the camel brought me.”

9. Men or Jinn?

IT WAS well past midnight when Tane and Haag Nadeem, swaying wearily in their camel litter, entered the Bab al Fotun. Some fifteen minutes later the camel knelt before the American’s doorway.



'Til go in with you,” said the hagg.

"You mean that I am still in danger?”

"Death hangs over your head, suspended on a thread thinner than that which supported the sword of Damocles,” replied Nadeem, as Tane unlocked the door. "Shaykh Ibrahim represented only a minor menace. You have yet to deal with the most dangerous of your adversaries.”

The American swung the door open, and they entered the courtyard.

"Perhaps I could be better prepared to defend myself if you would tell me who they are,” said Tane.

"That is just what I intend doing. But first, let us see if the house is clear of enemies.”

Nadeem opened the door of the mandarah. All was dark within. Producing a flashlight from beneath his clothing, he projected a thin white beam into the room.

"Mashallah!” he exclaimed. "Well done, efendi. You have a most efficient servant. Already, he has furnished the reception room, and with considerable magnificence.”

"What’s that? Wait until I light the lamp. Why, this is amazing! I only gave him five pounds.”

Tane quickly lighted an ornate brass lamp which the beam of Nadeem’s flashlight had revealed hanging from the ceiling. Its mellow amber glow revealed the room completely furnished with a magnificence that would have done credit to a sultan’s palace. And the air was fragrant with the odors of musk and sandalwood.

"Did you say five pounds?” queried the hagg, "If so, your man must be a wizard.”

Tane stared at the rich tapestries and rare rugs that graced the walls, the brocaded door-curtains in which were woven golden threads, the thick, deep-piled rug on which they were standing, the diwans

with their bright new mattresses and silken cushions, and the various taborets and articles of furniture which, collectively, must have cost a sizable fortune. To his astonishment he also saw that the wall which had been built in the alcove was torn out, and all traces of its presence obliterated. The diwans were restored as before, and a brazier of incense was smoldering in the niche.

"Look, hagg," he exclaimed. "The coffin has been taken away.”

"So it seems,” agreed Nadeem.

"And these furnishings! Good Lord! Ali was always a sharp bargainer, but he must have mesmerized some merchant to get all this with the money he had with him.”

Hagg Nadeem, meanwhile, parted the brocaded curtains that led to the hallway, and once more turning on his flashlight, shone it through the door of the next room.

"By my head and beard! The man is doubly a wizard!” he cried. "For this room is as richly furnished as the other.”

Hurrying after him, Tane gazed into the room, speechless with amazement.

"Well, there’s only one way to find out,” he said, finally. "We’ll ask Ali. I suppose he is asleep upstairs.”

They returned to the reception room, and Nadeem, with his flashlight, led the way up. Here, when Tane stepped into the room above, he once more gasped in amazement. For the majlis was furnished with even greater splendor than the rooms below.

"Ali,” he called. "Where are you?” There was no answer.

"Ali!” he shouted, more loudly.

Still no reply.

"Here, what’s this?” said Hagg Nadeem. His flashlight revealed the soles of a pair of cordovan slippers projeaing from beneath a mattress on one of the



diwans. StifBy, Tane lighted the central hanging lamp, a priceless object of antique art, and hurried to the diwan. With the handle of his Malacca stick, Nadeem hooked the mattress and jerked it off the diwan. Beneath it lay Ali, shivering with fright, his head buried beneath his arms as if he would fend off a blow. Swiftly, he muttered the Takbir, the Testification of Faith, and the Fatihah, one after another.

"Ali! What the devil’s got into you.^’’ demanded Tane.

"O iron, thou unlucky!” moaned Ali, burying his head still deeper.

'"The fool thinks we are pnn,” said Nadeem. "Iron is the talisman against the hosts of Jan ibn Jan, sultan of evil jinn. Something has frightened him half out of his wits.”

"Clear out of them, I should say,” said Tane. "Here, Ali,” seizing his arm. "Look at me.”

"Spare me, O brave and handsome emir of the jinn,” moaned Ali. "Spare the basest of your slaves.”

Impatiently, Tane clutched his arm and jerked him erect. The Syrian looked at him as if scarcely crediting the evidence of his senses.

"Don’t you know me, idiot?” snapped his master. "What kind of dope have you been taking?”

For a moment Ali stared fearfully at him. Then he said:

"Have they gone, sidi? Is it really you, or are you a jinni who has taken the form of my master?”

"Hagg Nadeem and I just came in,” said Tane. "We saw no jinn, nor anyone else. Tell us what happened. And where did you get all these gorgeous furnishings?”

"She brought them, sidi.”

"Who is 'She’?”

"The jinniyah. More beautiful was she than a houri from the Gardens of

the Blessed; slender and graceful as a willow wand, with raven tresses, languorous dark eyes, a brow of alabaster, cheeks like newly ripened peaches, lips red as crushed pomegranates, teeth that were matched pearls ”

"Hold on. How was she dressed?”

"She wore a crown of gold with two nodding white plumes, fronted by a golden, jewel-eyed serpent. And a filmy veil enveloped her. She was accompanied by a host of afreets, marids and peris, who did her bidding.”

"What are you talking about? How were these elementals dressed?”

"Like the ancient demons and ghuls whose pictures are on the walls of tombs.”

"Apparently he means the soldiers, workmen, slaves and others depicted in the tomb paintings,” said Nadeem. '"This is most remarkable!”

"It is unbelievable,” said Tane. "When did it happen, Ali?”

"I had bought the mattresses and supplies in accordance with yottr instructions, sidi,” said Ali, "and on finding you absent when I returned from the souk, concluded that you had gone out on some private business. I prepared dinner, and awaited your coming until quite late. But when, long after sunset, you did not appear, I ate the cold food, made wuddu, and prayed the prayer al aisha. I then placed a mattress in the reception room and sat down beside a lighted candle to smoke my chibouk. Suddenly I heard the sound of footsteps in the hallway. I arose, and was about to investigate, when the sultana of the jinn entered the room. Behind her trooped a horde of afreets and marids, bearing boxes and bales on their backs. And with her were two great black shaitans with swords in their hands and horns on their heads.”

"That would be about two hours after sunset,” said Nadeem.



"Precisely. About an hour after I saw Lamia on the oasis. Yet it took us five hours to ride back on a swift racingcamel. It seems that there are two of her.”

"Perhaps she has a magic carpet,” suggested Nadeem, facetiously.

"Go on, Ali,” said Tane.

"The jinniyah pointed to me,” continued the Syrian, "and said to the two black shaitans: 'Seize him, and see that he does not escape.’ Whereupon they rushed at me, brandishing their simitars, and dragged me to my feet.

" 'Throw these filthy vermin-nests into the street,’ she ordered one of the marids, and pointed to the mattresses I had bought. Then she set about giving orders to the others, to tear out the new wall, carry out the coffin, install a rug here, a taboret there, a tapestry here, and a curtain there, and to hang a lamp so, until the place looked like the salamlik of a palace. Then she moved from room to room, doing likewise in each, until the house was completely furnished.

"When all was finished, her slaves melted away, one by one, until there remained but the two black shaitans. Then she, too, disappeared, and one of those ebon sons of Ibless hurled me to a diwan in the majlis. 'Wait here until I come for you,’ he commanded. 'Try to leave, and you will be cut into cat-meat.’ He put out the lamp, and I waited here in the darkness, afraid to leave and afraid to remain. Presently, hearing your voices and footsteps, I thought the two shaitans had returned for me, and certain that my end had come, hid beneath the mattress.”

"Did I not know you for a man of veracity, I should call you a colossal liar,” said Tane, "even though you have plenty of evidence. But since the house has been emptied of demons, see if you can find some coffee, sugar and charcoal in the

kitchen, and if so, prepare us some ahhwi helwh.”

"Harkening and obedience, sidi," said Ali, and withdrew.

“TTIT HAT do you make of it?” Tane

V » asked, turning to Nadeem.

"Most remarkable,” smiled the hagg. "The lady seems to be looking out for your material interests, as well as defending your life.”

"But where could she have gotten all this plunder?”

"You might ask her,” suggested Nadeem.

"I still can’t believe it all. It seems like a dream. I might, in time, have come to believe in such creatures as Lamia is supposed to be, but I can hardly credit her with bringing a host of her subjeas with her through the ages, to raid the palace of some wealthy pasha and bring me the loot. That’s just a bit too thick.”

"Ah, well,” said Hagg Nadeem, proffering his cigarette case, "it may be that this mystery, like the other, will eventually imravel itself.”

At this instant, Ali entered with the coffee. For some time they sipped and smoked in silence. Then Nadeem rose.

"I must go, now,” he said. "I presume you will want a bowab and a cook. Tomorrow, I will send you two men whom I can recommend. The bowab is a powerful and trustworthy Nubian who will make an excellent guard. The cook is a Touareg, who adheres to the blue veil of his people. But his culinary skill is most remarkable.”

"One moment,” said Tane, rising. "You forgot to tell me the names of the two powerful enemies I am to look out for.”

"So I did. The first is Maksoud, the hawk-nosed Persian you found reading the scroll. The other is Doctor Schneider.”



"Doctor Schneider! Why, I can’t believe ’’

"Hadrak,” interrupted the hagg with his pleasant smile. "And remember, it will be to your interest to believe.”

With a polite bow, he disappeared through the curtains.

"See the hagg to the street door, Ali,^ ordered Tane. "And don’t forget to bolt it.”

IT WAS not until Hagg Nadeem had gone, and Ali had returned, that Tane suddenly remembered the loss of his forty-five. Also, he recalled that he had forgotten to ask the hagg the location of the secret passageway, with which his enemies were obviously familiar. Locking the door, after all, had been but a futile gesture.

"Looks as if we’re up against it, Ali,” he said, as his servant entered the majlis. "Those cutthroats can walk in on us any time they please, and my gun is gone.”

"The jinn hung two gold-hilted yatagans above the niche in the reception room, sidi," said Ali.

'"rhen bring them. They’ll be better than nothing.”

The Syrian hurried downstairs, and returned with the two double-curved swords.

Tane took one, and removed it from its plush-covered sheath. It proved to be of excellent steel and splendid workmanship, with an edge of almost razor sharpness.

"Well! We’re not so badly off for

weapons, after all,” he said. "I’m going to turn in, now, and you’d better do the same. Sleep here in the majlis, and if you hear the slightest sound, awaken me.”

Tane parted the heavy gold-embroidered hangings and went into his room. He found his diwan furnished with a mattress, coverlets and silken cushions that might have graced the bed of an opulent emir. Not bothering to light a lamp, he dropped the hangings, and undressed in the moonlight. He was deadtired, and that magnificently furnished couch was most inviting. As he tumbled in among the cushions Ali blew out the lamp in the majlis.

Placing the yatagan under the cover beside him, Tane settled down and tried to sleep. But it seemed that sleep was impossible. Presently, however, he heard the regular breathing of the Syrian in the next room, and shortly thereafter slipped into unconsciousness.

Tane’s awakening was both sudden and unpleasant. There was something encircling his throat — something that bit painfully into the flesh and shut off his breath so quickly that his palate rattled. He had been lying on his side with his face toward the window, and instinctively tried to sit up. But he was immediately jerked back. Then two sets of knuckles pressed into his cervical vertebra; and the cord about his throat tightened relentlessly. He struggled spasmodically. The moonlit room seemed whirling about him, then turned to a maelstrom of black nothingness which he knew was the precursor of death.

The fascinating, thrilling chapters that bring this remarkable story to a conclusion will appear in next month’s WEIRD TALES. Reserve your copy at your news dealer’s now.

W. T.— 4



ream-Stair

By ROBERT NELSON

What naked, bald and drunken child Leads me to some mad, topless stair And keeps me toiling upward there,

A withered thing, forlorn and wild?

About me swarm Satanic goats.

The seas below are frothing red.

And harsh winds sting my seething head As steel on stone drops down in moats Where drown and rot accursed swains — Dismembered thralls of some mad king — Whose bloating heads arise and sing.

But, lo! whence all these hellish rains That seem to linger for an age And pour upon my harried life Such airs, with loathsome larvas rife.

As whisper o’er a wizard’s page?

Then, mounting with white moons, I see The frenzied flight of huge man-birds,

And hear the cold and lethal words Babbled behind that drapery Whose swelling folds lean forth and sway. Shrouding a handed Shape, that grasps And throttles all the Gorgon’s asps.

And braves the Gorgon’s eyes to slay!

Tlie child brings ardent wine to me.

And still I climb the dream-built stair;

And in fell silence spreading there Great shadows eat the sphered sea.

False child! false child! O traitor child! What Image meets my frozen eyes?

Is It what Satan sanctifies —

Full-fraught with bale but pleasing mild? But the stair crumbles, clean destroyed.

The circling mists and phantoms flee,

'The child pursues them mad with glee, And leaves me in the falling void.

W.T.—S

By CLARK ASHTON SMITH

A tale of inexorable destiny, and the grim figure of a mummy that strode through the Houses of the astrologer’s horoscope

The world itself, in the end, shall be turned to a round cipher. — Old prophecy of Zothique.

NUSHAIN the astrologer had studied the circling orbs of night from many far-separated regions, and had cast, with such skill as he was able to command, the horoscopes of a myriad men, women and children. From city to city, from realm to realm he had gone, abiding briefly in any place: for often the local magistrates had banished him as a common charlatan; or clsewise, in due time, his consultants had discovered the error of his predictions and had fallen away from him. Sometimes he went hungry and shabby; and small honor was paid to him anywhere. The sole companions of his precarious fortunes were a wretched mongrel dog that had somehow attached itself to him in the desert town of Zul-Bha-Sair, and a mute, one-eyed negro whom he had bought very cheaply in Yoros. He had named the dog Ansarath, after the canine star, and had called the negro Mou2da, which was a word signifying darkness.

In the course of his prolonged itinerations, the astrologer came to Xylac and made his abode in its capital, Ummaos, which had been built above the shards of an elder city of the same name, long since destroyed by a sorcerer’s wrath. Here Nushain lodged with Ansarath and Mouzda in a half-ruinous attic of a rotting tenement; and from the tenement’s roof, Nushain was wont to observe the positions and movements of the sidereal bodies on evenings not obscured by the

fumes of the city. At intervals some housewife or jade, some porter or huckster or petty merchant, would climb the decaying stairs to his chamber, and would pay him a small sum for the nativity which he plotted with immense care by the aid of his tattered books of astrological science.

When, as often occurred, he found himself still at a loss regarding the significance of some heavenly conjunction or opposition after poring over his books, he would consult Ansarath, and would draw profound auguries from the variable motions of the dog’s mangy tail or his actions in searching for fleas. Certain of these divinations were fulfilled, to the considerable benefit of Nushain’s renown in Ummaos. People came to him more freely and frequently, hearing that he was a soothsayer of some note; and, moreover, he was immune from prosecution, owing to the liberal laws of Xylac, which permitted all the sorcerous and mantic arts.

It seemed, for the first time, that the dark planets of his fate were yielding to auspicious stars. For this fortune, and the coins which accrued thereby to his purse, he gave thanks to Vergama who, throughout the whole continent of Zothique, was deemed the most powerful and mysterious of the genii, and was thought to rule over the heavens as well as the earth.

ON A siunmer night, when the stars were strewn thickly like a fiery sand on the black azure vault, Nushain went up to the roof of his lodging-place. As


was often his custom, he took with him the negro Mouzda, whose one eye possessed a miraculous sharpness and had served well, on many occasions, to supplement the astrologer’s own rather nearsighted vision. Through a well-codified system of signs and gestures, the mute was able to communicate the result of his observations to Nushain.

On this night the constellation of the Great Dog, which had presided over Nushain’s birth, was ascendant in the east. Regarding it closely, the dim eyes of the astrologer were troubled by a sense of something unfamiliar in its configuration. He could not determine the precise character of the change till Mouzda, who evinced much excitement, called



his attention to three new stars of the second magnitude which had appeared in close proximity to the Dog’s hindquarters. These remarkable novas, which Nushain could discern only as three reddish blurs, formed a small equilateral triangle. Nushain and Mouzda were both certain that they had not been visible on any previous evening.

"By Vergama, this is a strange thing,” swore the astrologer, filled with amazement ^md dumfoundment. He began to compute the problematic influence of the novas on his future reading of the heavens, and perceived at once that they would exert, according to the law of astral emanations, a modifying effect on his own destiny, which had been so largely controlled by the Dog.

He could not, however, without consulting his books and tables, decide the particular trend and import of this supervening influence; though he felt sure that it was most momentous, whether for his bale or welfare. Leaving Mouzda to watch the heavens for other prodigies, he descended at once to his attic. There, after collating the opinions of several oldtime astrologers on the power exerted by novas, he began to re-cast his own horoscope. Painfully and with much agitation he labored throughout the night, and did not finish his figurings till the dawn came to mix a deathly grayness with the yellow light of the candles.

There was, it seemed, but one possible interpretation of the altered heavens. The appearance of the triangle of novae in conjunction with the Dog signified clearly that Nushain was to start ere long on an unpremeditated journey which would involve the transit of no less than three elements. Mouzda and Ansarath were to accompany him; and three guides, appearing successively, at the proper times, would lead him toward a destined goal. So much his calculations had revealed, but

no more: there was nothing to foretell whether the journey would prove auspicious or disastrous, nothing to indicate its bourn, purpose or direction.

The astrologer was much disturbed by this somewhat singular and equivocal augury. He was ill pleased by the prospect of an imminent journey, for he did not wish to leave Ummaos, among whose credulous people he had begun to establish himself not without success. Moreover, a strong apprehension was roused within him by the oddly manifold nature and veiled outcome of the journey. All this, he felt, was suggestive of the workings of some occult and perhaps sinister providence; and surely it was no common traveling which would take him through three elements and would require a triple guidance.

During the nights that followed, he and Mouzda watched the mysterious novas as they went over toward the west behind the bright-flaming Dog. And he puzzled interminably over his charts and volumes, hoping to discover some error in the reading he had made. But always, in the end, he was compelled to the same interpretation.

More and more, as time went on, he was troubled by the thought of that unwelcome and mysterious journey which he must make. He continued to prosper in Ummaos, and it seemed that there was no conceivable reason for his departure from that city. He was as one who awaited a dark and secret summons, not knowing whence it would come, nor at what hour. Throughout the days, he scanned with fearful anxiety the faces of his visitors, deeming that the first of the three star-predicted guides might arrive unheralded and unrecognized among them.

Mouzda and the dog Ansarath, with the intuition of dumb things, were sensible of the weird uneasiness felt by their master. They shared it palpably, the neTHE LAST HIEROGLYPH


gro showing his apprehension by wild and demoniac grimaces, and the dog crouching under the astrologer’s table or prowling restlessly to and fro with his half-hairless tail between his legs. Such behavior, in its turn, served to reconfirm the inquietude of Nushain, who deemed it a bad omen.

ON A certain evening, Nushain pored for the fiftieth time over his horoscope, which he had drawn with sundrycolored inks on a sheet of papyrus. He was much startled when, on the blank lower margin of the sheet, he saw a curious character which was no part of his own scribbling. The charaaer was a hieroglyph written in dark bituminous brown, and seeming to represent a mummy whose shroudings were loosened about the legs and whose feet were set in the posture of a long stride. It was facing toward that quarter of the chart where stood the sign indicating the Great Dog, which, in Zothique, was a House of the zodiac.

Nushain’s surprize turned to a sort of trepidation as he studied the hieroglyph. He knew that the margin of the chart had been wholly clear on the previous night; and during the past day he had not left the attic at any time. Mouzda, he felt sure, would never have dared to touch the chart; and, moreover, the negro was little skilled in writing. Among the various inks employed by Nushain, there was none that resembled the sullen brown of the character, which seemed to stand out in a sad relief on the white papyrus.

Nushain felt the alarm of one who confronts a sinister and unexplainable apparition. No human hand, surely, had inscribed the mummy-shapen character, like the sign of a strange outer planet about to invade the Houses of his horoscope. Here, as in the advent of the three novae, an occult agency was suggested. Vainly, for many hours, he sought to unriddle the mystery: but in all his books there was naught to enlighten him; for this thing, it seemed, was wholly without precedent in astrology.

During the next day he was busied from morn till eve with the plotting of those destinies ordained by the heavens for certain people of Ummaos. After completing the calculations with his usual toilsome care, he unrolled his own chart once more, albeit with trembling fingers. An eeriness that was nigh to panic seized him when he saw that the brown hieroglyph no longer stood on the margin, but was now placed like a striding finger in one of the lower Houses, where it still fronted toward the Dog, as if advancing on that ascendant sign.

Henceforth the astrologer was fevered with the awe and curiosity of one who watches a fatal but inscrutable portent. Never, during the hours that he pondered above it, was there any change in the intruding character; and yet, on each successive evening when he took out the chart, he saw that the mummy had strode upward into a higher House, drawing always nearer to the House of the Dog....

There came a time when the figure stood on the Dog’s threshold. Portentous with mystery and menace that were still beyond the astrologer’s divining, it seemed to wait while the night wore on and was shot tlirough with the gray wefting of dawn. 'Then, overworn with his prolonged studies and vigils, Nushain slept in his chair. Without the troubling of any dream he slept; and Mouzda was careful not to disturb him; and no visitors came to the attic on that day. So the morn and the noon and the afternoon went over, and their going was unheeded by Nushain.

He was awakened at eve by the loud and dolorous howling of Ansarath, which appeared to issue from the room’s far*



these corner. Confusedly, ere he opened his eyes, he became aware of an odor of bitter spices and piercing natron. Then, with the dim webs of sleep not wholly swept from his vision, he beheld, by the yellowy tapers that Mouzda had lighted, a tall, mummy-like form that waited in silence beside him. The head, arms and body of the shape were wound closely with bitumen-colored cerements; but the folds were loosened from the hips downward, and the figure stood like a walker, with one brown, withered foot in advance of its fellow.

Terror quickened in Nushain’s heart, and it came to him that the shrouded shape, whether lich or phantom, resembled the weird, invasive hieroglyph that had passed from House to House through the chart of his destiny. Then, from the thick swathings of the apparition, a voice issued indistinctly, saying: "Prepare yourself, O Nushain, for I am the first guide of that journey which was foretold to you by the stars.”

Ansarath, cowering beneath the astrologer’s bed, was still howling his fear of the visitant; and Nushain saw that Mouzda had tried to conceal himself in company with the dog. Though a chill as of imminent death was upon him, and he deemed the apparition to be death itself, Nushain arose from his chair with that dignity proper to an astrologer, which he had maintained through all the vicissitudes of his lifetime. He called Mouzda and Ansarath from their hiding-place, and the two obeyed him, though with many cringings before the dark, muffled mummy.

With the comrades of his fortune behind him, Nushain turned to the visitant. "I am ready,” he said, in a voice whose quavering was almost imperceptible. "But I would take with me certain of my belongings.”

The mummy shook his mobled head.

"It were well to take with you nothing but your horoscope: for this alone shall you retain in the end.”

Nushain stooped above the table on which he had left his nativity. Before he began to roll the open papyrus, he noticed that the hieroglyph of the mummy had vanished. It was as if the written symbol, after moving athwart his horoscope, had materialized itself in the figure that now attended him. But on the chart's nether margin, in remote opposition to the Dog, was the sea-blue hieroglyph of a quaint merman with carp-like tail and head half human, half apish; and behind the merman was the black hieroglyph of a small barge.

Nushain’s fear, for a moment, was subdued by wonder. But he rolled the chart carefully, and stood holding it in his right hand.

"Come,” said the guide. "Your time is brief, and you must pass through the three elements that guard the dwellingplace of Vergama from unseasonable intrusion.”

These words, in a measure, confirmed the astrologer’s divinations. But the mystery of his future fate was in no wise lightened by the intimation that he must enter, presumably at the journey’s end, the dim House of that being called Vergama, whom some considered the most secret of all the gods, and others, the most cryptical of demons. In all the lands of ^thique, there were rumors and fables regarding Vergama; but these were wholly diverse and contradictory, except in their common attribution of almost omnipotent powers to this entity. No man knew the situation of his abode; but it was believed that vast multitudes of people had entered it during the centuries and millenniums, and that none had returned therefrom.

Ofttimes had Nushain called upon the name of Vergama, swearing or protesting



thereby as men are wont to do by the cognomens of their shrouded lords. But now, hearing the name from the lips of his macabre visitor, he was filled with the darkest? and most eery apprehensions. He sought to subdue these feelings, and to resign himself to the manifest will of the stars. With Mouzda and Ansarath at his heels, he followed the striding mummy, which seemed little hampered, if at all, by its trailing cerements.

With one regretful backward glance at his littered books and papers, he passed from the attic room and down the tenement stairs. A wannish light seemed to cling about the swathings of the mummy; but, apart from this, there was no illumination; and Nushain thought that the house was strangely dark and silent, as if all its occupants had died or had gone away. He heard no sound from the evening city; nor could he see aught but close-encroaching darkness beyond the windows that should have gazed on a little street. Also, it seemed that the stairs had changed and lengthened, giving no more on the courtyard of the tenement, but plunging deviously into an unsuspected region of stifling vaults and foul, dismal, nitrous corridors.

Here the air was pregnant with death, and the heart of Nushain failed him. Everywhere, in the shadow-curtained crypts and deep-shelved recesses, he felt the innumerable presence of the dead. He thought that there was a sad sighing of stirred cerements, a breath exhaled by long-stiffened cadavers, a dry clicking of lipless teeth beside him as he went. But darkness walled his vision, and he saw nothing save the luminous form of his guide, who stalked onward as if through a natal realm.

It seemed to Nushain that he passed through boundless catacombs in which were housed the mortality and corruption of all the ages. Behind him still he

heard the shuffling of Mouzda, and at whiles the low, frightened whine of Ansarath; so he knew that the twain were faithful to him. But upon him, with a chill of lethal damps, there grew the horror of his surroundings; and he shrank with all the repulsion of living flesh from the shrouded thing that he followed, and those other things that moldered round about in the fathomless gloom.

Half thinking to hearten himself by the sound of his own voice, he began to question the guide; though his tongue clove to his mouth as if palsied. "Is it indeed Vergama, and none other, who has summoned me forth upon this journey.^ For what purpose has he called me.^ And in what land is his dwelling.?’’

"Your fate has summoned you,” said the mummy. "In the end, at the time appointed and no sooner, you shall learn the purpose. As to your third question, you would be no wiser if I should name the region in which the house of Vergama is hidden from mortal trespass: for the land is not listed on any terrene chart, nor map of the starry heavens.”

These answers seemed equivocal and disquieting to Nushain, who was possessed by frightful forebodings as he went deeper into the subterranean charnels. Dark, indeed, he thought, must be the goal of a journey whose first stage had led him so far amid the empire of death and corruption; and dubious, surely, was the being who had called him forth and had sent to him as the first guide a sere and shrunken mummy clad in the tomb’s habiliments.

Now, as he pondered these matters almost to frenzy, the shelfy walls of the catacomb before him were outlined by a dismal light, and he came after the mummy into a chamber where tall candles of black pitch in sodcets of tarnished silver



burned about an immense and solitary sarcophagus. Upon the blank lid and sides of the sarcophagus, as Nushain neared it, he could see neither runes nor sculptures nor hieroglyphs engraven; but it seemed, from the proportions, that a giant must lie within.

The mummy passed athwart the chamber without pausing. But Nushain, seeing that the vaults beyond were full of darkness, drew back with a reluctance that he could not conquer; and though the stars had decreed his journey, it seemed to him that human flesh could go no farther. Prompted by a sudden impulse, he seized one of the heavy yardlong tapers that burned stilly about the sarcophagus; and, holding it in his left hand, with his horoscope still firmly clutched in the right, he fled with Mouzda and Ansarath on the way he had come, hoping to retrace his footsteps through the gloomy caverns and return to Ummaos by the taper’s light.

He heard no sound of pursuit from the mummy. But ever, as he fled, the pitch candle, flaring wildly, revealed to him the horrors that darkness had curtained from his eyes. He saw the bones of men that were piled in repugnant confusion with those of fell monsters, and the riven sarcophagi from which protruded the half-decayed members of innominate beings; members which were neither heads nor hands nor feet. And soon the catacomb divided and redivided before him, so that he must choose his way at random, not knowing whether it would lead him back to Ummaos or into the untrod depths.

Presently he came to the huge, browless skull of an imcouth creature, which reposed on the ground with upward-gazing orbits; and beyond the skull was the monster’s moldy skeleton, wholly blocking the passage. Its ribs were cramped by the narrowing walls, as if it had crept

there and had died in the darkness, unable to withdraw or go forward. White spiders, demon-headed and large as monkeys, had woven their webs in the hollow arches of the bones; and they swarmed out interminably as Nushain approached; and the skeleton seemed to stir and quiver as they seethed over it abhorrently and dropped to the ground before the astrologer. Behind them others poured in a countless army, crowding and mantling every ossicle. Nushain fled with his companions; and running back to the forking of the caverns, he followed another passage.

Here he was not pursued by the demon spiders. But, hurrying on lest they or the mummy overtake him, he was soon halted by the rim of a great pit which filled the catacomb from wall to wall and was overwide for the leaping of man. The dog Ansarath, sniffing certain odors tiiat arose from the pit, recoiled with a mad howling; and Nushain, holding the taper outstretched above it, discerned far down a glimmer of ripples spreading circlewise on some unctuous black fluid; and two blood-red spots appeared to swim with a weaving motion at the center. Then he heard a hissing as of some great cauldron heated by wizard fires; and it seemed that the blackness boiled upward, mounting swiftly and evilly to overflow the pit; and the red spots, as they neared him, were like luminous eyes that gazed malignantly into his own....

So Nushain turned away in haste; and, returning upon his steps, he found the mummy awaiting him at the junction of the catacombs.

"It would seem, O Nushain, that you have doubted your own horoscope,’’ said the guide, with a certain irony. "However, even a bad astrologer, on occasion, may read the heavens aright. Obey, then, the stars that decreed your journey.’’

Heaceforwajd, Nushain followed the



mummy without recalcitrance. Returning to the chamber in which stood the immense sarcophagus, he was enjoined by his guide to replace in its socket the black taper he had stolen. Without other light than the phosphorescence of the mummy’s cerements, he threaded the foul gloom of those profounder ossuaries which lay beyond. At last, through caverns where a dull dawning intruded upon the shadows, he came out beneath shrouded heavens, on the shore of a wild sea that clamored in mist and cloud and spindrift. As if recoiling from the harsh air and light, the mummy drew back into the subterrane, and it said:

"Here my dominion ends, and I must leave you to await the second guide.”

STANDING with the poignant sea-salt in his nostrils, with his hair and garments outblown on the gale, Nushain heard a metallic clangor, and saw that a door of rusty bronze had closed in the cavern-entrance. The beach was walled by unscalable cliffs that ran sheerly to the wave on each hand. So perforce the astrologer waited; and from the torn stuff he beheld erelong the emergence of a sea-blue merman whose head was half human, half apish; and behind the merman there hove a small black barge that was not steered or rowed by any visible being. At this, Nushain recalled the hieroglyphs of the sea-creature and the boat whidi had appeared on the margin of his nativity; and imrolling the papyrus, he saw with wonderment that the figures were both gone; and he doubted not that they had passed, like the mummy’s hieroglyph, through all the zodiacal Houses, even to that House which presided over his destiny; and thence, mayhap, they had emerged into material being. But in their stead now was the burning hieroglyph of a fire-colored salamander, set opposite to the Great Dog.

The merman beckoned to him with antic gestures, grinning deeply, and showing the white serrations of his shark-like teeth. Nushain went forward and entered the barge in obedience to the signs made by the sea-creature; and Mouzda and Ansarath, in faithfulness to their master, accompanied him. Thereupon the merman swam away through the boiling surf; and the barge, as if oared and ruddered 1^ mere enchantment, swung about forthwith, and warring smoothly against wind and wave, was drawn straightly over that dim, unnamable ocean.

Half seen amid rushing foam and mist, the merman swam steadily on before. Time and space were surely outpassed during that voyage; and as if he had gone beyond mortal existence, Nushain experiaiced neither thirst nor hunger. But it seemed that his soul drifted upon seas of strange doubt and direst alienation; and he feared the misty chaos about him even as he had feared the nighted catacombs. Often he tried to question the mer-creature concerning their destination, but received no answer. And the wind blowing from shores unguessed, and the tide flowing to unknown gulfs, were alike filled with whispers of awe and terror.

Nushain pondered the mysteries of his journey almost to madness; and the thought came to him that, after passing through the region of death, he was now traversing the gray limbo of uncreated things; and, thinking this, he was loth to surmise the third stage of his journey; and he dared not reflect upon the nature of its goal.

Anon, suddenly, the mists were riven, and a cataract of golden rays poured down from a high-seated sun. Near at hand, to the lee of the driving barge, a tall island hove with verdurous trees and light, shell-shaped domes, and blossomy gardens hanging far up in the dazzlement of noon. 'There, with a sleepy purl474


ing, the surf was lulled on a low, grassy shore that had not known the anger of storm; and fruited vines and full-blown flowers were pendent above the water. It seemed that a spell of oblivion and slumber was shed from the island, and that any who landed thereon would dwell inviolable for ever in sun-bright dreams. Nushain was seized with a longing for its green, bowery refuge; and he wished to voyage no farther into the dreadful nothingness of the mist-bound ocean. And between his longing and his terror, he quite forgot the terms of that destiny which had been ordained for him by the stars.

There was no halting nor swerving of the barge; but it drew still nearer to the isle in its coasting; and Nushain saw that the intervening water was clear and shallow, so that a tall man might easily wade to the beach. He sprang into the sea, holding his horoscope aloft, and began to walk toward the island; and Mouzda and Ansarath followed him, swimming side by side.

Though hampered somewhat by his long wet robes, the astrologer thought to reach that alluring shore; nor was there any movement on the part of the merman to intercept him. The water was midway between his waist and his armpits; and now it lapped at his girdle; and now at the knee-folds of his garment; and die island vines and blossoms drooped fragrantly above him.

Then, being but a step from that enchanted beach, he heard a great hissing, and saw that the vines, the boughs, the flowers, the very grasses, were intertwined and mingled with a million serpents, writhing endlessly to and fro in hideous agitation. From all parts of that lofty island the hissing came, and the serpents, widi foully mottled volumes, coiled, crept and slithered upon it everywhere; and no single yard of its surface was free

from their defilement, or clear for human treading.

Turning seaward in his revulsion, Nushain found the merman and the barge waiting close at hand. Hopelessly he reentered the barge with his followers, and the magically driven boat resumed its course. And now, for the first time, the merman spoke, saying over his shoulder in a harsh, half-articulate voice, not without irony; "It would seem, O Nushain, that you lack faith in your own divinations. However, even the poorest of astrologers may sometimes cast a horoscope correctly. Cease, then, to rebel against that which the stars have written.”

The barge drove on, and the mists closed heavily about it, and the noonbright island was lost to view. After a vague interim the muffled sun went down behind inchoate waters and clouds; and a darkness as of primal night lay everywhere. Presently, through the torn rack, Nushain beheld a strange heaven whose signs and planets he could not recognize; and at this there came upon him the black horror of utmost dereliction. Then the mists and clouds returned, veiling that unknown sky from his scrutiny. And he could discern nothing but the merman, who was visible by a wan phosphor that clung always about him in his swimming.

Still the barge drove on; and in time it seemed that a red morning rose stifled and conflagrant behind the mists. The boat entered the broadening light, and Nushain, who had thought to behold the sun once more, was dazzled by a strange shore where flames towered in a high unbroken wall, feeding perpetually, to all appearance, on bare sand and rock. With a mighty leaping and a roar as of blown surf the flames went up, and a heat like that of many furnaces smote far on the sea. Swiftly the barge neared the shore;

THE LAST HIERCX5LYPH

'475

and the merman, with uncouth gestures of farewell, dived and disappeared under the waters.

Nushain could scarcely regard the flames or endure their heat. But the barge touched the strait tongue of land lying between them and the sea; and before Nushain, from the wall of fire, a blazing salamander emerged, having the form and hue of that hieroglyph which had last appeared on his horoscope. And he knew, with ineffable consternation, that this was the third guide of his threefold journey.

"Come with me,” said the salamander, in a voice like the crackling of fagots. Nushain stepped from the barge to that strand which was hot as an oven beneath his feet; and behind him, though with palpable reluctance, Mouzda and Ansarath still followed. But, approaching the flames behind the salamander, and half swooning from their ardor, he was overcome by the weakness of mortal flesh; and seeking again to evade his destiny, he fled along the narrow scroll of beach between the fire and the water. But he had gone only a few paces when the salamander, with a great fiery roaring and racing, intercepted him; and it drove him straight toward the fire with terrible Sailings of its dragon-like tail, from which showers of sparks were emitted. He could not face the salamander, and he thought the flames would consume him like paper as he entered them: but in the wall there appeared a sort of opening, and the fires arched themselves into an arcade, and he passed through with his followers, herded by the salamander, into an ashen land where all things were veiled with low-hanging smoke and steam. Here the salamander observed with a kind of irony: "Not wrongly, O Nushain, have you interpreted the stars of your horoscope. And now your journey draws to an end, and you will need

no longer the services of a guide.” So saying, it left him, going out like a quenched fire on the smoky air.

Nushain, standing irresolute, beheld before him a white stairway that mounted amid the veering vapors. Behind him the flames rose unbroken, like a topless rampart; and on either hand, from instant to instant, the smoke shaped itself into demon forms and faces that menaced him. He began to climb the stairs, and the shapes gathered below and about, frightful as a wizard’s familiars, and keeping pace with him as he went upward, so that he dared not pause or retreat. Far up he climbed in the fumy dimness, and came unaware to the open portals of a house of gray stone rearing to unguessed height and amplitude.

UNWILLINGLY, but driven by the thronging of the smoky shapes, he passed through the portals with his companions. The house was a place of long, empty halls, tortuous as the folds of a sea-conch. There were no windows, no lamps; but it seemed that bright suns of silver had been dissolved and diffused in the air. Fleeing from the hellish wraiths that pursued him, the astrologer followed the winding halls and emerged ultimately in an inner chamber where space itself was immured. At the room’s center a cowled and muffled figure of colossal proportions sat upright on a marble chair, silent, unstirring. Before the figure, on a sort of table, a vast volume lay open.

Nushain felt the awe of one who approaches the presence of some high demon or deity. Seeing that the phantoms had vanished, he paused on the room’s threshold: for its immensity made him giddy, like the void interval that lies between the worlds. He wished to withdraw; but a voice issued from the cowled being, speaking softly as the voice of his own inmost mind:



"I am Vergama, whose other name is Destiny; Vergama, on whom you have called so ignorantly and idly, as men are wont to call on their hidden lords; Vergama, who has summoned you on the journey which all men must make at one time or another, in one way or another way. Come forward, O Nushain, and read a little in my book.”

The astrologer was drawn as by an imseen hand to the table. Leaning above it, he saw that the huge volume stood open at its middle pages, which were covered with a myriad signs written in inks of various colors, and representing men, gods, fishes, birds, monsters, animals, constellations, and many other things. At the end of the last column of the righthand page, where little space was left for other inscriptions, Nushain beheld the hieroglyphs of an equal-sided triangle of stars, such as had lately appeared in proximity to the Dog; and, following these, the hieroglyphs of a mummy, a merman, a barge and a salamander, resembling the figures that had come and gone on his horoscope, and those that had guided him to the house of Vergama.

"In my book,” said the cowled figure, "the diaracters of all things are written and preserved. All visible forms, in the beginning, were but symbols written by me; and at the last they shall exist only as the writing of my book. For a season they issue forth, taking to themselves that which is known as substance.... It was I, O Nushain, who set in the heavens the stars that foretold your journey; I, who sent the three guides. And these things, having served their purpose, are now but infoliate ciphers, as before.”

Vergama paused, and an infinite silence returned to the room, and a measureless wonder was upon the mind of Nushain. Then the cowled being continued:

"Among men, for a while, there was

that person called Nushain the astrologer, together with the dog Ansarath and the negro Mouada, who followed his fortunes.... But now, very shortly, I must turn the page, and before turning it, must finish the writing that belongs thereon.”

Nushain thought that a wind arose in the chamber, moving lightly with a weird sigh, though he felt not the actual breath of its passing. But he saw that the fur of Ansarath, cowering close beside him, was ruffled by the wind. Then, beneath his marveling eyes, the dog began to dwindle and wither, as if seared by a lethal magic; and he lessened to the size of a rat, and thence to the smallness of a mouse and the lightness of an insea, though preserving still his original form. After that, the tiny thing was caught up by the sighing air, and it flew past Nushain as a gnat might fly; and, following it, he saw that the hieroglyph of a dog was insaibed suddenly beside that of the salamander, at the bottom of the righthand page. But, apart from this, there remained no trace of Ansarath.

Again a wind breathed in the room, touching not the astrologer, but fluttering the ragged raiment of Mouzda, who crouched near to his master, as if appealing for protection. And the mute became shrunken and shriveled, turning at the last to a thing light and thin as the black, tattered wing-shard of a beetle, which the air bore aloft. And Nushain saw that the hieroglyph of a one-eyed negro was inscribed following that of the dog; but, aside from this, there was no sign of Mouzda.

Now, perceiving clearly the doom that was designed for him, Nushain would have fled from the presence of Vergama. He turned from the outspread volume and ran toward the chamber door, his worn, tawdry robes of an astrologer flapping about his thin shanks. But

THE LAST HIERCXiLYPH


softly in his ear, as he went, there sounded the voice of Vergama:

"Vainly do men seek to resist or evade that destiny which turns them to ciphers in the end. In my book, O Nushain, there is room even for a bad astrologer.”

Once more the weird sighing arose, and a cold air played upon Nushain as he ran; and he paused midway in the vast room as if a wall had arrested him. Gently the air breathed on his lean, gaunt fig:ure, and it lifted his graying locks and beard, and it plucked softly at the roll of papyrus which he still held in his hand. To his dim eyes, the room seemed to reel and

swell, expanding infinitely. Borne upward, around and around, in a swift vertiginous swirling, he beheld the seated shape as it loomed ever higher above him in cosmic vastness. Then the god was lost in light; and Nushain was a weightless and exile thing, the withered skeleton of a lost leaf, rising and falling on the bright whirlwind.

In the book of Vergama, at the end of the last column of the right-hand page, there stood the hieroglyph of a gaunt astrologer, carrying a furled nativity.


[THE END]

============================================================
by Searight
============================================================
Vergama leaned forward from his chair, and turned the page.

Vhe

ew World

By RICHARD F. SEARIGHT

I dreamed I hung in ebon, star-flecked space; And, through a rift in dense-piled banks of cloud That veil this world like a colossal shroud. Looked down into the planet’s molten face Where flaming vapors surge and writhe and race.

The clouds are seared by an imending blast Of cosmic heat from gory seas below;

And painted crimson by the lurid glow From lambent, gassy streamers swirling past. To coil and undulate and sink at last.

Beneath the angry spouts of fiery spray

The blood-red cauldron bubbles, deep and slow.

It seethes and moans in an incessant throe

Of genesis, that by its pangs it may

Mold to a fairer life, Aough hard the way.

ut of the Eons

By HAZEL HEALD

'A tale of Elder Magic and a monstrous idol — a shuddery tale of primordial evil

(Mss. found among the effects of the late Richard H. Johnson, Ph. D., curator of the Cabot Museum of Archeology, Boston, Mass.)

IT IS not likely that any one in Boston — or any alert reader elsewhere — will ever forget the strange affair of the Cabot Museum. The newspaper publicity given to that hellish mummy, the antique and terrible rumors vaguely linked with it, the morbid wave of interest and cult activities during 1932, and the frightful fate of the two intruders on December first of that year, all combined to form one of those classic mysteries which go down for generations as folklore and become the nuclei of whole cycles of horrific speculation.

Every one seems to realize, too, that something very vital and unutterably hideous was suppressed in the public accounts of the culminant horrors. Those first disquieting hints as to the condition of one of the two bodies were dismissed and ignored too abruptly — nor were the singular modifications in the mummy given the following-up which their news value would normally prompt. It also struck people as queer that the mummy was never restored to its case. In these days of expert taxidermy the excuse that its disintegrating condition made exhibition impracticable seemed a peculiarly lame one.

As curator of the museum I am in a position to reveal all the suppressed facts, but this I shall not do during my lifetime. There are things about the world


and universe which it is better for the majority not to know, and I have not departed from the opinion in which all of us — ^museum staff, physicians, reporters, and police — concurred at the period of the horror itself. At the same time it seems proper that a matter of such overwhelming scientific and historic importance should not remain wholly unrecorded— hence this account which I have prepared for the benefit of serious students. I shall place it among various papers to be examined after my death, leaving its fate to the discretion of my executors. Certain threats and unusual events during the past weeks have led me to believe that my life — as well as that of other museum officials — is in some peril through the enmity of several widespread secret cults of Asiatics, Polynesians, and heterogeneous mystical devotees; hence it is possible that the work of the executors may not be long postponed. [Executors’ note; Doctor Johnson died suddenly and rather mysteriously of heart failure on April 22, 1933. Wentworth Moore, taxidermist of the museum, disappeared around the middle of the preceding month. On February 18 of the same year Doctor William Minot, who superintended a disseaion connected with the case, was stabbed in the back, dying the following day.]

The real beginning of the horror, I suppose, was in 1879 — long before my term as curator — ^when the museum acquired that ghastly, inexplicable mummy from the Orient Shipping Company. Its



very discovery was monstrous and menacing, for it came from a crypt of imknown origin and fabulous antiquity on a bit of land suddenly upheaved from the Pacific’s floor.

On May 11, 1878, Captain Charles Weatherbee of the freighter Eridanus, bound from Wellington, New Zealand, to Valparaiso, Chile, had sighted a new island unmarked on any chart and evi^

dently of volcanic origin. It projected quite boldly out of the sea in the form of a truncated cone. A landing-party under Captain Weatherbee noted evidences of long submersion on the rugged slopes which they climbed, while at the summit there were signs of recent destruction, as by an earthquake. Among the scattered rubble were massive stones of manifestly artificial shaping, and a



little examination disclosed the presence of some of that prehistoric Cyclopean masonry found on certain Pacific islands and forming a perpetual archeological puazle.

Finally the sailors entered a massive stone crypt — judged to have been part of a much larger edifice, and to have originally lain far underground — in one corner of which the frightful mummy crouched. After a short period of virtual panic, caused partly by certain carvings on the walls, the men were induced to move the mummy to the ship, though it was only with fear and loathing that they touched it. Close to the body, as if once thrust into its clothes, was a q^linder of an unknown metal containing -a roll of thin, bluish-white membrane of equally unknown nature, inscribed with peculiar characters in a grayish, indeterminable pigment. In the center of the vast stone floor was a suggestion of a trap-door, but the party lacked apparatus sufficiently powerful to move it.

The Cabot Museum, then newly established, saw the meager reports of the discovery and at once took steps to acquire the mummy and the cylinder. Curator Pickman made a personal trip to Valparaiso and outfitted a schooner to search for the crypt where the thing had been found, though meeting with failure in this matter. At the recorded position of the island nothing but the sea’s unbroken expanse could be discerned, and the seekers realized that the same seismic forces which had suddenly thrust the island up, had carried it down again to the watery darkness where it had brooded for untold eons. The secret of that immovable trapdoor would never be solved.

The mummy and the cylinder, however, remained — and the former was placed on exhibition early in November, 1879, in the museum’s h^l of mummies.

The Cabot Museum of Archeology, which specializes in such remnants of ancient and unknown civilizations as do not fall within the domain of art, is a small and scarcely famous institution, though one of high standing in scientific circles. It stands in the heart of Boston’s exclusive Beacon Hill district — in Mt. Vernon Street, near Joy — housed in a former private mansion with an added wing in the rear, and was a source of pride to its austere neighbors until the recent terrible events brought it an luidesirable notoriety.

The hall of mummies on the western side of the original mansion (which was designed by Bulfinch and erected in 1819), on the second floor, is justly esteemed by historians and anthropologists as harboring the greatest collection of its kind in America. Here may be found typical examples of Egyptian embalming from the earliest Sakkarah specimens to the last Coptic attempts of the Eighth Century; mummies of other cultures, including the pre-historic Indian specimens recently foimd in the Aleutian Islands; agonized Pompeian figures molded in plaster from tragic hollows in the ruinchoking ashes; naturally mummified bodies from mines and other excavations in all parts of the earth — ^some surprized by their terrible entombment in the grotesque postures caused by their last, tearing death-throes — everything, in short, which any collection of the sort could well be expected to contain. In 1879, of course, it was much less ample than it is now; yet even then it was remarkable. But that shocking thing from the primal Cyclopean crypt on an ephemeral seaspawned island was always its chief attraaion and most impenetrable mystery.

The mummy was that of a mediumsized man of unknown race, and was cast in a peculiar crouching posture. The face,

W.T.— 5



half shielded by claw-like hands, had its under jaw thrust far forward, while the shrivelled features bore an expression of fright so hideous that few spectators could view them immoved. The eyes were closed, with lids clamped down tightly over eyeballs apparently bulging and prominent. Bits of hair and beard remained, and the color of the whole was a sort of dull neutral gray. In texture the thing was half leathery and half stony, forming an insoluble enigma to those experts who sought to ascertain how it was embalmed. In places bits of its substance were eaten away by time and decay. Rags of some peculiar fabric, with suggestions of unknown designs, still clung to the object.

Just what made it so infinitely horrible and repulsive one could hardly say. For one thing, there was a subtle, indefinable sense of limitless antiquity and utter alienage which affected one like a view from the brink of a monstrous abyss of unplumbed blackness — but mostly it was the expression of crazed fear on the puckered, prognathous, half-shielded face. Such a symbol of infinite, inhuman, cosmic fright could not help communicating the emotion to the beholder amidst a disquieting cloud of mystery and vain conjecture.

Among the discriminating few who frequented the Cabot Museum this relic of an elder, forgotten world soon acquired an unholy fame, though the institution’s seclusion and quiet policy prevented it from becoming a popular sensation of the "Cardiff Giant” sort. In the last century the art of vulgar ballyhoo had not invaded the field of scholarship to the extent it has now succeeded in doing. Naturally, savants of various kinds tried their best to classify the frightful object, though always without success. Theories of a bygone Pacific civilization, W. T.— 6

of which the Easter Island images and the megalithic masonry of Ponape and NanMatal are conceivable vestiges, were freely circulated among students, and learned journals carried varied and often conflicting speculations on a possible former continent whose peaks survive as the myriad islands of Melanesia and Polynesia. The diversity in dates assigned to the hypothetical vanished culture — or continent— was at once bewildering and amusing; yet some surprizingly relevant allusions were found in certain myths of Tahiti and other islands.

Meanwhile the strange cylinder and its baffling scroll of unknown hieroglyphs, carefully preserved in the museum library, received ^eir due share of attention. No question could exist as to their association with the mummy; hence all realized that in the unravelling of their mystery the mystery of the shrivelled horror would in all probability be unravelled as well. The cylinder, about four inches long by seveneighths of an inch in diameter, was of a queerly iridescent metal utterly defying chemical analysis and seemingly impervious to all reagents. It was tightly fitted with a cap of the same substance, and bore engraved figurings of an evidently decorative and possibly symbolic nature — conventional designs which seemed to follow a peculiarly alien, paradoxical, and doubtfully describable system of geometry.

Not less mysterious was the scroll it contained — a neat roll of some thin, bluish-white, unanalyzable membrane, coiled round a slim rod of metal like that of the cylinder, and unwinding to a length of some two feet. The large, bold hieroglyphs, extending in a narrow line down the center of the scroll and penned or painted with a gray pigment defying analysis, resembled nothing known to linguists and paleographers, and could not



be deciphered despite the transmission of photographic copies to every living expert in the given field.

It is true that a few scholars, unusually versed in the literature of occultism and magic, found vague resemblances between some of the hieroglyphs and certain primal symbols described or cited in two or three very ancient, obscure, and esoteric texts such as the Book of Eibon, reputed to descend from forgotten Hyperborea; the Pnakotic fragments, alleged to be prehuman; and the monstrous and forbidden Necronomkon of the mad Arab Abdul Alhazrcd. None of these resemblances, however, was beyond dispute; and because of the prevailing low estimation of occult studies, no effort was made to circulate copies of the hieroglyphs among mystical specialists. Had such circulation occurred at this early date, the later history of the case might have been very different; indeed, a glance at the hieroglyphs by any reader of von Junzt’s horrible Nameless Cults would have established a linkage of unmistakable significance. At this period, however, the readers of that monstrous blasphemy were exceedingly few; copies having been incredibly scarce in the interval between the suppressions of the original Diisseldorf edition (1839) and of the Bridewell translation (1845) and the publication of the expurgated reprint by the Golden Goblin Press in 1909. Practically speaking, no occultist or student of the primal past’s esoteric lore had his attention called to the strange scroll until the recent outburst of sensational journalism which precipitated the horrible climax.


Thus matters glided along for a halfcentury following the installation of the frightful mummy at the museum. The gruesome object had a local celebrity

among cultivated Bostonians, but no more than that; while the very existence of the tylinder and scroll — after a decade of futile research — ^was virtually forgotten. So quiet and conservative was the Cabot Museum that no reporter or feature writer ever thought of invading its uneventful precincts for rabble-tickling material.

The invasion of ballyhoo commenced in the spring of 1931, when a purchase of somewhat spectacular nature— that of the strange objects and inexplicably preserved bodies found in crypts beneath the almost vanished and evilly famous ruins of Chateau Faussesflammes, in Averoigne, France — brought the museum prominently into the news columns. True to its "hustling” policy, the Boston Pillar sent a Sunday feature writer to cover the incident and pad it with an exaggerated general account of the institution itself; and this young man — Stuart Reynolds by name — hit upon the nameless mummy as a potential sensation far surpassing the recent acquisitions nominally forming his chief assignment. A smattering of theosophical lore, and a fondness for the speculations of such writers as Colonel ^urchward and Lewis Spence concerning lost continents and primal forgotten civilizations, made Reynolds especially alert toward any eonian relic like the unknown mummy.

At the museum the reporter made himself a nuisance through constant and not always intelligent questionings and endless demands for the movement of encased objects to permit photographs from unusual angles. In the basement library room he pored endlessly over the strange metal cylinder and its membranous scroll, photographing them from every angle and securing pictures of every bit of the weird hieroglyphed text. He likewise asked to see all books with any bearing whatever on the subject of primal culOUT OF THE EONS


hires and sunken continents — sitting for three hours taking notes, and leaving only in order to hasten to Cambridge for a sight (if permission were granted) of the abhorred and forbidden Necronomicon at the Widener Library.

On April fifth the article appeared in the Sunday Pillar, smothered in photographs of mummy, cylinder, and hieroglyphed scroll, and couched in the peculiarly simpering, infantile style which the Pillar affects for the benefit of its vast and mentally immature clientele. Full of inaccuracies, exaggerations, and sensationalism, it was precisely the sort of thing to stir the brainless and fickle interest of the herd — and as a result the once quiet museum began to be swarmed with chattering and vacuously staring throngs such as its stately corridors had never known before.

There were scholarly and intelligent visitors, too, despite the puerility of the article the pictures had spoken for themselves— and many persons of mature attainments sometimes see the Pillar by accident. I recall one very strange character who appeared during November — a dark, turbaned and bushily bearded man with a labored, unnatural voice, curiously expressionless face, clumsy hands covered with absurd white mittens, who gave a squalid West End address and called himself "Swami Chandraputra”. This fellow was unbelievably erudite in occult lore and seemed profoundly and solemnly moved by the resemblance of the hieroglyphs on the scroll to certain signs and symbols of a forgotten elder world about which he professed vast intuitive knowledge.

By June, the fame of the mummy and scroll had leaked far beyond Boston, and the museum had inquiries and requests for photographs from occultists and students of arcana all over the world. This

was not altogether pleasing to our staff, since we are a scientific institution without sympathy for fantastic dreamers; yet we answered all questions with civility. One result of these catechisms was a highly learned article in The Occult Review by the famous New Orleans mystic Etienne-Laurent de Marigny, in which was asserted the complete identity of some of the odd geometrical designs on the iridescent cylinder, and of several of the hieroglyphs on the membranous scroll, with certain ideographs of horrible significance (transcribed from primal monoliths or from the secret rituals of hidden bands of esoteric students and devotees) reproduced in the hellish and suppressed Black Book or Nameless Cults of von Jun2t.

De Marigny recalled the frightful death of von Junzt in 1840, a year after the publication of his terrible volume at Dusseldorf, and commented on his bloodcurdling and partly suspected sources of information. Above all, he emphasized the enormous relevance of the tales with which von Junzt linked most of the monstrous ideographs he had reproduced. That these tales, in which a cylinder and scroll were expressly mentioned, held a remarkable suggestion of relationship to the things at the museum, no one could deny; yet they were of such breath-taking extravagance — involving such unbelievable sweeps of time and such fantastic anomalies of a forgotten elder world — that one could much more easily admire than believe them.

Admire them the public certainly did, for copying in the press was universal. Illustrated articles sprang up everywhere, telling or purporting to tell the legends in the Black Book, expatiating on the horror of the mummy, comparing the cylinder’s designs and the saoll’s hieroglyphs with the figures reproduced by von Junzt,



and indulging in the wildest, most sensational and most irrational theories and speculations. Attendance at the museum was trebled, and the widespread nature of the interest was attested by the plethora of mail on the subject — most of it inane and superfluous — received at the museum. Apparently the mummy and its origin formed — for imaginative people — a close rival to the depression as chief topic of 1931 and 1932. For my own part, the principal effect of the furor was to make me read von Junzt’s monstrous volume in the Golden Goblin edition — a perusal which left me dizzy and nauseated, yet thankful that I had not seen the utter infamy of the unexpurgated text.


The archaic whispers reflected in the Black Book and linked with designs and symbols so closely akin to what the mysterious scroll and cylinder bore, were indeed of a character to hold one spellbound and not a little awestruck. Leaping an incredible gulf of time — behind ^11 the civilizations, races, and lands we know — they clustered round a vanished nation and a vanished continent of the misty, fabulous dawn-years... that to which legend has given the name of Mu, and which old tablets in the primal Naacal tongue speak of as flourishing 200,000 years ago, when Europe harbored only hybrid entities, and lost Hyperborea knew the nameless worship of black amorphous Tsathoggua.

There was mention of a kingdom or province called K’naa in a very ancient land where the first human people had found monstrous ruins left by those who had dwelt there before — ^vague waves of unknown entities which had filtered down from the stars and lived out their eons on a forgotten, nascent world. K’naa was a

sacred place, since from its midst the bleak basalt cliffs of Mount Yaddith-Gho soared starkly into the sky, topped by a gigantic fortress of Cyclopean stone, infinitely older than mankind and built by the alien spawn of the dark planet Yuggoth, which had colonized the earth before the birth of terrestrial life.

The spawn of Yuggoth had perished eons before, but had left behind them one monstrous and terrible living thing which could never die — their hellish god or patron demon Ghatanotlioa, which lowered and brooded eternally though unseen in the crypts beneath that fortress on Yaddith-Gho. No human creature had ever climbed Yaddith-Gho or seen that blasphemous fortress except as a distant and geometrically abnormal outline against the sky; yet most agreed that Ghatanothoa was still there, wallowing and burrowing in unsuspected abysses beneath the megalithic walls. There were always those who believed that sacrifices must be made to Ghatanothoa, lest it crawl out of its hidden abysses and waddle horribly through the world of men as it had once waddled through the primal world of the Yuggoth-spawn.

People said that if no victims were offered, Ghatanothoa would ooze up to the light of day and lumber down the basalt cliffs of Yaddith-Gho bringing doom to all it might encounter. For no living thing could behold Ghatanothoa, or even a perfect graven image of Ghatanothoa, however small, without suffering a change more horrible than death itself. Sight of the god, or its image, as all the legends of Yuggoth-spawn agreed, meant paralysis and petrifaction of a singularly shocking sort, in which the victim was turned to stone and leather on the outside, while the brain within remained perpetually alive — ^horribly fixed



and prisoned through the ages, and maddeningly conscious of the passage of interminable epochs of helpless inaction till chance and time might complete the decay of the petrified shell and leave it exposed to die. Most brains, of course, would go mad long before this eon-deferred release coidd arrive. No human eyes, it was said, had ever glimpsed Ghatanothoa, though the danger was as great now as it had been for the Yuggothspawn.

And so there was a cult in K’naa which worshipped Ghatanothoa and each year sacrificed to it twelve young warriors and twelve young maidens. These victims were offered up on flaming altars in the marble temple near the mountain’s base, for none dared climb Yaddith-Gho’s basalt cliffs or draw near to the cyclopean pre-human stronghold on its crest. Vast was the power of the priests of Ghatanothoa, since upon them alone depended the preservation of K’naa and of all the land of Mu from the petrifying emergence of Ghatanothoa out of its unknown burrows.

There were in the land a hundred priests of the Dark God, under Imash-Mo the High Priest, who walked before King Thabou at the Nath-feast, and stood proudly whilst the King knelt at the Dhoric shrine. Each priest had a marble house, a chest of gold, two hundred slaves, and a hundred concubines, besides immunity from civil law and the power of life and death over all in K’naa save the priests of the King. Yet in spite of these defenders there was ever a fear in the land lest Ghatanothoa slither up from the depths and lurch viciously down the mountain to bring horror and petrifaction to mankind. In the latter years the priests forbade men even to guess or imagine what its frightful aspect might be.

IT WAS in the Year of the Red Moon (estimated as B. C. 173,148 by von Junzt) that a human being first dared to breathe defiance against Ghatanothoa and its nameless menace. This bold heretic was T’yog, High Priest of Shub-Niggurath and guardian of the copper temple of the Goat With a 'Thousand Young. T’yog had thought long on the powers of the various gods, and had had strange dreams and revelations touching the life of this and earlier worlds. In the end he felt svire that the gods friendly to man could be arrayed against the hostile gods, and believed that Shub-Niggurath, Nug, and Yeb, as well as Yig the Serpent-god, were ready to take sides with man against the tyranny and presumption of Ghatanothoa.

Inspired by the Mother Goddess, T’yog wrote down a strange formula in the hieratic Naacal of his order, which he believed would keep the possessor immune from the Dark God’s petrifying power. With this protection, he reflected, it might be possible for a bold man to climb the dreaded basalt cliffs and — first of all human beings — enter the cyclopean fortress beneath which Ghatanothoa reputedly brooded. Face to face with the god, and with the power of Shub-Niggurath and her sons on his side, T’yog believed that he might be able to bring it to terms and at last deliver mankind from its brooding menace. With humanity freed through his efforts, there would be no limit to the honors he might claim. All the honors of the priests of Ghatanothoa would perforce be transferred to him; and even kingship or godhood might conceivably be within his reach.

So T’yog wrote his protective formula on a scroll of pthagon membrane (according to von Junzt, the inner skin of the extinct yakith-lizard) and enclosed it in a carven cylinder of lagh metal— the



metal brought by the Elder Ones from Yuggoth, and found in no mine of earth. This charm, carried in his robe, would make him proof against the menace of Ghatanothoa — it would even restore the Dark God’s petrified victims if that monstrous entity should ever emerge and begin its devastations. Thus he proposed to go up the shunned and man-imtrodden mountain, invade the alien-angled citadel of Cyclopean stone, and confront the shocking devil-entity in its lair. Of what would follow, he could not even guess; but the hope of being mankind’s savior lent strength to his will.

He had, however, reckoned without die jealousy and self-interest of Ghatanothoa’s pampered priests. No sooner did they hear of his plan than — fearful for their prestige and privilege in case the Demon-God should be dethroned — they set up a frantic clamor against the socalled sacrilege, crying that no man might prevail against Ghatanothoa, and that any effort to seek it out would merely provoke it to a hellish onslaught against mankind which no spell or priestcraft could hope to avert. With those cries they hoped to turn the public mind against T’yog; yet such was the people’s yearning for freedom from Ghatanothoa, and such their confidence in the skill and zeal of T’yog, that all the protestations came to naught. Even the King, usually a puppet of the priests, refused to forbid 'T’yog’s daring pilgrimage.

It was then that the priests of Ghatanothoa did by stealth what they could not do openly. One night Imash-Mo, the High-Priest, stole to T’yog in his temple chamber and took from his sleeping form the metal cylinder; silently drawing out the potent scroll and putting in its place another scroll of great similitude, yet varied enough to have no power against any god or demon. When the cylinder

was slipped back into the sleeper’s cloak Imash-Mo was content, for he knew T’yog was little likely to study that cylinder’s contents again. Thinking himself protected by the true scroll, the heretic would march up the forbidden mountain and into the Evil Presence — and Ghatanothoa, unchecked by any magic, would take care of the rest.

It would no longer be needful for Ghatanothoa’s priests to preach against the defiance. Let T’yog go his way and meet his dooqi. And secretly, the priests would always cherish the stolen scroll — the true and potent charm — ^handing it down from one High-Priest to another for use in any dim future when it might be needful to contravene the Devil-God’s will. So the rest of the night Imash-Mo slept in great peace, with the true scroll in a new cylinder fashioned for its harborage.

IT WAS at dawn on the Day of the SkyFlames (nomenclature undefined by von Junzt) that T’yog, amidst the prayers and chanting of the people and with King Thabou’s blessing on his head, started up the dreaded mountain with a staff of tlath-wood in his right hand. Within his robe was the cylinder holding what he thought to be the true charm — • for he had indeed failed to find out the imposture. Nor did he see any irony in the prayers which Imash-Mo and the other priests of Ghatanothoa intoned for his safety and success.

All that morning the people stood and watched as T’yog’s dwindling form struggled up the shunned basalt slope hitherto alien to men’s footsteps, and many stayed watching long after he had vanished where a perilous ledge led round to the mountain’s hidden side. That night a few sensitive dreamers thought they heard a faint tremor conOUT OF THE EONS


Tulsing the hated peak; though most ridiculed them for the statement. Next day vast crowds watched the mountain and prayed, and wondered how soon T’yog would return. And so the next day, and the next. For weeks they hoped and waited, and then they wept. Nor did any one ever see T’yog, who would have saved mankind from fears, again.

Thereafter men shuddered at T’yog’s presumption, and tried not to think of the punishment his impiety had met. And the priests of Ghatanothoa smiled to those who might resent the god’s will or challenge its right to the sacrifices. In later years the ruse of Imash-Mo became known to the people; yet the knowledge availed not to change the general feeling that Ghatanothoa were better left alone. None ever dared defy it again. And so the ages rolled on, and King succeeded King, and High-Priest succeeded HighPriest, and nations rose and decayed, and lands rose above the sea and returned into the sea. And with many millennia decay fell upon K’naa — till at last on a hideous day of storm and thunder, terrific rumbling and mountain-high waves, all the land of Mu sank into the sea for ever.

Yet down the later eons thin streams of ancient secrets trickled. In distant lands there met together gray-faced fugitives who had survived the sea-fiend’s rage, and strange skies drank the smoke of altars reared to vanished gods and demons. Though none knew to what bottomless deep the sacred peak and Cyclopean fortress of dreaded Ghatanothoa had sunk, there were still those who mumbled its name and offered to it nameless sacrifices lest it bubble up through leagues of ocean and shamble among men spreading horror and petrifaction.

Around the scattered priests grew the

rudiments of a dark and secret cult — secret because the people of the new lands had other gods and devils, and thought only evil of elder and alien ones — and within that cult many hideous things were done, and many strange objects cherished. It was whispered that a certain line of elusive priests still harbored the true charm against Ghatanothoa which ImashMo stole from the sleeping T’yog; though none remained who could read or understand the cryptic syllables, or who could even guess in what part of the world the lost K’naa, the dreaded peak of Yaddith-Gho, and the titan fortress of the Devil-God had lain.

Though it flourished chiefly in those Pacific regions around which Mu itself had once stretched, there were rumors of the hidden and detested cult of Ghatanothoa in ill-fated Atlantis, and on the abhorred plateau of Leng. Von Junzt implied its presence in the fabled subterrene kingdom of K’nyan, and gave clear evidence that it had penetrated Egypt, Gialdea, Persia, China, the forgotten Semite empires of Africa, and Mexico and Peru in the New World. That it had a strong connection with the witchcraft movement in Europe, against which the bulls of popes were vainly directed, he more than strongly hinted. The West, however, was never favorable to its growth; and public indignation — aroused by glimpses of hideous rites and nameless sacrifices — wholly stamped out many of its branches. In the end it became a hunted, doubly furtive underground affair — yet never could its nucleus be quite exterminated. It always survived somehow, chiefly in the Far East and on the Pacific Islands, where its teachings became merged into the esoteric lore of the Polynesian Areoi.

Von Junzt gave subtle and disquieting hints of actual contact with the cult; so that as I read I shuddered at what was



rumored about his death. He spoke of the growth of certain ideas regarding the appearance of the Devil-God — a creature which no human being (unless it were the too-daring T’yog, who had never returned) had ever seen — and contrasted this habit of speculation with the taboo prevailing in ancient Mu against any attempt to imagine what the horror looked like. There was a peculiar fearfulness about the devotees’ awed and fascinated whispers on this subject — whispers heavy with morbid curiosity concerning the precise nature of what T’yog might have confronted in that frightful prehuman edifice on the dreaded and nowsunken mountains before the end (if it was an end) finally came — and I felt oddly disturbed by the German scholar’s oblique and insidious references to this topic.

Scarcely les^ disturbing were von Junzt’s conjectures on the whereabouts of the stolen scroll of cantrips against Ghatanothoa, and on the ultimate uses to which this scroll might be put. Despite all my assurance that the whole matter was purely mythical, I could not help shivering at the notion of a latter-day emergence of the monstrous god, and at the picture of an humanity turned suddenly to a race of abnormal statues, each encasing a living brain doomed to inert and helpless consciousness for untold eons of futurity. The old Dusseldorf savant had a poisonous way of suggesting more than he stated, and I could understand why his damnable book was suppressed in so many countries as blasphemous, dangerous, and unclean.

I writhed with repulsion, yet the thing exerted an unholy fascination; and I could not lay it down till I had finished it. The alleged reproductions of designs and ideographs from Mu were marvellously and startlingly like the markings on the

strange cylinder and the diaracters on the scroll, and the whole account teemed with details having vague, irritating suggestions of resemblance to things connected with the hideous mummy. The cylinder and scroll — the Pacific setting — the persistent notion of old Captain Weatherbee that the Cyclopean crypt where the mummy was found had once lain under a vast building... somehow I was vaguely glad that the volcanic island had sunk before that massive suggestion of a trap-door could be opened.


WHAT I read in the Black Book formed a fiendishly apt preparation for the news items and closer events which began to force themselves upon me in the spring of 1932. I can scarcely recall just when the increasingly frequent reports of police action against the odd and fantastical religious cults in the Orient and elsewhere commenced to impress me; but by May or June I realized that there was, all over the world, a surprizing and unwonted burst of activity on the part of bizarre, furtive, and esoteric mystical organizations ordinarily quiescent and seldom heard from.

It is not likely that I would have connected these reports with either the hints of von Junzt or the popular furor over the mummy and cylinder in the museum, but for certain significant syllables and persistent resemblances — sensationally dwelt upon by the press — in the rites and speeches of the various secret celebrants brought to public attention. As it was, I could not help remarking with disquiet the frequent recurrence of a name — in various corrupt forms — which seemed to constitute a focal point of all the cult worship, and which was obviously regarded with a singular mixture of reverence and terror. Some of the forms quotedi



were G’tanta, Tanotah, Than-Tha, Gatan, and Ktan-Tah — and it did not require the suggestions of my now numerous occultist correspondents to make me see in these variants a hideous and suggestive kinship to the monstrous name rendered by von Junzt at Ghatanothoa.

There were other disquieting features, too. Again and again the reports cited vague, awestruck references to a "true scroll” — something on which tremendous consequences seemed to hinge, and which was mentioned as being in the custody of a certain "Nagob”, whoever and whatever he might be. Likewise, there was an insistent repetition of a name which sounded like Tog, Tiok, Yog, Zob, or Yob, and which my more and more excited consciousness involuntarily linked with the name of the hapless heretic T’yog as given in the Black Book. This name was usually uttered in connection with such cryptical phrases as "It is none other than he,” "He had looked upon its face,” "He knows all, though he can neither see nor feel,” "He has brought the memory down through the eons,” "The true scroll will release him,” "Nagob has the true scroll,” "He can tell where to find it.”

Something very queer was undoubtedly in the air, and I did not wonder when my occultist correspondents, as well as the sensational Sunday papers, began to connect the new abnormal stirrings with the legends of Mu on the one hand, and with the frightful mummy’s recent exploitation on the other hand. The widespread articles in the first wave of press publicity, with their insistent linkage of the mummy, cylinder, and scroll with the tale in the Black Book, and their crazily fantastic speculations about the whole matter, might very well have roused the latent fanaticism in hundreds of those furtive groups of exotic devotees with?whtdi our complex world abounds. Nor

did the papers cease adding fuel to the flames — for the stories on the cult-stirrings were even wilder than the earlier series of yarns.

As the summer drew on, attendants noticed a curious new element among the throngs of visitors which — after a lull following the first burst of publicity — were again drawn to the museum by the second furor. More and more frequently there were persons of strange and exotic aspect — swarthy Asiatics, long-haired nondescripts, and bearded brown men who seemed unused to European clothes — ^who would invariably inquire for the hall of mummies and would subsequently be found staring at the hideous Pacific specimen in a veritable ecstasy of fascination. Some quiet, sinister undercurrent in this flood of eccentric foreigners seemed to impress all the guards, and I myself was far from xmdisturbed. I could not help thinking of the prevailing cult-stirrings among just such exotics as these — and the connection of those stirrings with myths all too close to the frightful mummy and its cylinder scroll.

At times I was half tempted to withdraw the mummy from exhibition — especially when an attendant told me that he had several times glimpsed strangers making odd obeisances before it, and had overheard singsong mutterings which sounded like chants or rituals addressed to it at hours when the visiting throngs were somewhat thinned. One of the guards acquired a queer nervous hallucination about the petrified horror in the lone glass case, alleging that he could see from day to day certain vague, subtle, and infinitely slight changes in the frantic flexion of the bony claws, and in the fear-crazed expression of the leathery face. He could not get rid of the loathsome idea that those horrible, bulging eyes were about to pop suddenly open.



IT WAS early in September, when the curious crowds had lessened and the hall of mummies was sometimes vacant, that the attempt to get at the mummy by cutting the glass of its case was made. The culprit, a swarthy Polynesian, was spied in time by a guard, and was overpowered before any damage occurred. Upon investigation the fellow turned out to be a Hawaiian notorious for his activity in certain underground religious cults, and having a considerable police record in connection with abnormal and inhuman rites and sacrifices. Some of the papers found in his room were highly pu2zling and disturbing, including many sheets covered with hieroglyphs closely resembling those on the scroll at the museum and in the Black Book of von Junzt; but regarding these things he could not be prevailed upon to speak.

Scarcely a week after this incident, another attempt to get at the mummy — this time by tampering with the lock of its case — resulted in a second arrest. The offender, a Cingalese, had as long and unsavory a record of loathsome cult activities as the Hawaiian had possessed, and displayed a kindred unwillingness to talk to the police. What made this case doubly and darkly interesting was that a guard had noticed this man several times before, and had heard him addressing to the mummy a peculiar chant containing unmistakable repetitions of the word "T’yog.” As a result of this affair I doubled the guards in the hall of mummies, and ordered them never to leave the now notorious specimen out of sight, even for a moment.

As may well be imagined, the press made much of these two incidents, reviewing its talk of primal and fabulous Mu, and claiming boldly that the hideous mummy was none other than the daring heretic T'yog, petrified by something he

had seen in the pre-human citadel he had invaded, and preserved intact through 175,000 years of our planet’s turbulent history. That the strange devotees represented cults descended from Mu, and that they were worshipping the mmmy — or perhaps even seeking to awaken it to life by spells and incantations — ^was emphasized and reiterated in the most sensational fashion.

Writers exploited the insistence of the old legends that the brain of Ghatanothoa’s petrified victims remained conscious and unaffected — a point which served as a basis for the wildest and most improbable speculations. The mention of a "true scroll” also received due attention — it being the prevailing popular theory that T’yog’s stolen charm against Ghatanothoa was somewhere in existence, and that cult-members were trying to bring it into contact with T’yog himself for some purpose of their own. One result of this exploitation was that a third wave of gaping visitors began flooding the museum and staring at the hellish mummy which served as a nucleus for the whole strange and disturbing affair.

It was among this wave of spectators — many of whom made repeated visits — that talk of the mummy’s vaguely changing aspect first began to be widespread. I suppose — despite the disturbing notion of the nervous guard some months before — that the museum’s personnel was too well used to the constant sight of odd shapes to pay close attention to details; in any case, it was the excited whispers of visitors which at length aroused the guards to the subtle mutation which was apparently in progress. Almost simultaneously the press got hold of it — with blatant results which can well be imagined.

Naturally, I gave the matter my most careful observation, and by the middle of



October decided that a definite disintegration of the mummy was under way. Through some chemical or physical influence in the air, the half -stony, halfleathery fibers seemed to be gradually relaxing, causing distinct variations in the angles of the limbs and in certain details of the fear-twisted facial expression. After a half-century of perfect preservation this was a highly disconcerting development, and I had the museum’s taxidermist, Doctor Moore, go carefully over the gruesome object several times. He reported a general relaxation and softening, and gave the thing two or three astringent sprayings, but did not dare to attempt anything drastic lest tliere be a sudden crumbling and accelerated decay.

The eflfect of all this upon the gaping crowds was curious. Heretofore each new sensation sprung by the press had brought a fresh wave of staring and whispering visitors, but now — though the papers blathered endlessly about the mummy’s changes — the public seemed to have acquired a definite sense of fear which outranked even its morbid curiosity. People seemed to feel that a sinister aura hovered over the museum, and from a high peak the attendance fell to a level distinctly below normal. This lessened attendance gave added prominence to the stream of freakish foreigners who continued to infest the place, and whose numbers seemed in no way diminished.

On November eighteenth a Peruvian of Indian blood suffered a strange hysterical or epileptic seizure in front of the mummy, afterward shrieking from his hospital cot, "It tried to open its eyes! — T’yog tried to open his eyes and stare at me!’’ I was by this time on the point of removing the object from exhibition, but permitted myself to be overruled at a meeting of our very conservative directors. However, I could see that the museum

was beginning to acquire an unholy reputation in its austere and quiet neighborhood. After this incident I gave instructions that no one be allowed to pause before the monstrous Pacific relic for more than a few minutes at a time.

It was on November twenty-fourth, after the museum’s five o’clock closing, that one of the guards noticed a minute opening of the mummy’s eyes. The phenomenon was very slight — nothing but a thin crescent of cornea being visible in either eye — but it was none the less of the highest interest. Doctor Moore, having been summoned hastily, was about to study the exposed bits of eyeball with a magnifier when his handling of the mummy caused the leathery lids to fall tightly shut again. All gentle efforts to open them failed, and the taxidermist did not dare to apply drastic measures. When he notified me of all this by telephone I felt a sense of mounting dread hard to reconcile with the apparently simple event concerned. For a moment I could share the popular impression that some evil, amorphous blight from unplumbed deeps of time and space hung murkily and menacingly over the museum.

Two nights later a sullen Filipino was trying to secrete himself in the museum at closing time. Arrested and taken to the station, he refused even to give his name, and was detained as a suspicious person. Meanwhile the strict surveillance of the mummy seemed to discourage the odd hordes of foreigners from haunting it. At least, the number of exotic visitors distinctly fell off after the enforcement of the "move along” order.

It was during the early morning hours of Thursday, December first, that a terrible climax developed. At about one o’clock horrible screams of mortal fright and agony were heard issuing from the museum, and a series of frantic telephone



calls from neighbors brought to the scene quickly and simultaneously a squad of police and several museum officials, including myself. Some of the policemen surrounded the building while others, with the officials, cautiously entered. In the main corridor we found the night watchman strangled to death — a bit of East Indian hemp still knotted around his neck — and realized that despite all precautions some darkly evil intruder or intruders had gained access to the place. Now, however, a tomb-like silence enfolded everything and we almost feared to advance upstairs to the fateful wing where we knew the core of the trouble must lurk. We felt a bit more steadied after flooding the building with light from the central switches in the corridor, and finally crept reluctantly up the curving staircase and through a lofty archway to the hall of mummies.


IT IS from this point onward that reports of the hideous case have been censored — for we have all agreed that no good can be accomplished by a public knowledge of those terrestrial conditions implied by the further developments. I have said that we flooded the whole building with light before our ascent. Now, beneath the beams that beat down on the glistening cases and their gruesome contents, we saw outspread a mute horror whose baffling details testified to happenings utterly beyond our comprehension. There were two intruders — who we afterward agreed must have hidden in the building before closing time — but they would never be executed for the watchman’s murder. They had already paid the penalty.

One was a Burmese and the other a Fiji-Islander — both known to the police for their share in frightful and repulsive

cult activities. They were dead, and the more we examined them the more utterly monstrous and unnamable we felt their manner of death to be. On both faces was a more wholly frantic and inhuman look of fright than even the oldest policeman had ever seen before; yet in the state of the two bodies there were vast and significant differences.

The Burmese lay collapsed close to the nameless mummy’s case, from which a square of glass had been neatly cut. In his right hand was a scroll of bluish membrane which I at once saw was covered with grayish hieroglyphs — almost a duplicate of the scroll in the strange cylinder in the library downstairs, though later study brought out subtle differences. There was no mark of violence on the body, and in view of the desperate, agonized expression on the twisted face we could only conclude that the man died of sheer fright.

It was the closely adjacent Fijian, though, that gave us the profoundest shock. One of the policemen was the first to feel of him, and the cry of fright he emitted added another shudder to that neighborhood’s night of terror. We ought to have known from the lethal grayness of the once-black, fear-twisted face, and of the bony hands — one of which still clutched an electric torch — that something was hideously wrong; yet every one of us was unprepared for what that officer’s hesitant touch disclosed. Even now I can think of it only with a paroxysm of dread and repulsion. To be brief — the hapless invader, who less than an hour before had been a sturdy living Melanesian bent on unknown evils, was now a rigid, ash-gray figure of stony, leathery petrifaction, in every respect identical with the crouching, eon-old blasphemy in the violated glass case.

Yet that was not the worst. Crowning



all other horrors, and indeed seizing our shocked attention before we turned to the bodies on the floor, was the state of the frightful mummy. No longer could its changes be called vague and subtle, for it had now made radical shifts of posture. It had sagged and slumped with a curious loss of rigidity; its bony claws had sunk until they no longer even partly covered its leathery, fear-crazed face; and — God help us! — its hellish bulging eyes had popped wide open, and seemed to be staring directly at the two intruders who had died of fright or worse.

That ghastly, dead-fish stare was hideously mesmerizing, and it haunted us all the time we were examining the bodies of the invaders. Its effect on our nerves was damnably queer, for we somehow felt a curious rigidity creeping over us and hampering our simplest motions — a rigidity which later vanished very oddly when we passed the hieroglyphed scroll around for inspection. Every now and then I felt my gaze drawn irresistibly toward those horrible bulging eyes in the case, and when I returned to study them after viewing the bodies I thought I detected something very singular about the glassy surface of the dark and marvellously wellpreserved pupils. The more I looked, the more fascinated I became; and at last I went down to the oflice — despite that strange stiffness in my limbs — and brought up a strong multiple magnifying glass. With this I commenced a very close and careful survey of the fishy pupils, while the others crowded expectantly around.

I had always been rather skeptical of the theory that scenes and objects become photographed on the retina of the eye in cases of death or coma; yet no sooner did I look through the lens than I realized the presence of some sort of image other than the room’s reflection in the glassy.

bulging optics of this nameless spawn of the eons. Certainly, there was a dimly outlined scene on the age-old retinal surface, and I could not doubt that it formed the last thing on which those eyes had looked in life — countless millennia ago. It seemed to be steadily fading, and I fumbled with the magnifier in order to shift another lens into place. Yet it must have been accurate and clear-cut; even if infinitesimally small, when — in response to some evil spell or act connected with their visit — it had confronted those intruders who were frightened to death. With the extra lens I could make out many details formerly invisible, and the awed group around me hung on the flood of words with which I tried to tell what I saw.

For here, in the year 1932, a man in the city of Boston was looking on something which belonged to an unknown and utterly alien world — a world that vanished from existence and normal memory eons ago. There was a vast room — a chamber of cyclopean masonry — and 1 seemed to be viewing it from one of its corners. On the walls were carvings so hideous that even in this imperfect image their stark blasphemousness and bestiality sickened me. I could not believe that the carvers of these things were human, or that they had ever seen human beings when they shaped the frightful outlines which leered at the beholder. In the center of the chamber was a colossal trapdoor of stone, pushed upward to permit the emergence of some object from below. The object should have been clearly visible— indeed, must have been when the eyes first opened before the fear-stricken intruders — though under my lenses it was merely a monstrous blur.

As it happened, I was studying the right eye only when I brought the extra magnification into play. A moment later



I wished fervently that my search had ended there. As it was, however, the zeal of discovery and revelation was upon me, and I shifted my powerful lenses to the mummy's left eye in the hope of finding the image less faded on that retina. My hands, trembling with excitement and unnaturally stiff from some obscure influence, were slow in bringing the magnifier into focus, but a moment later I realized that the image was less faded than in the other eye. I saw in a morbid flash of halfdistinctness the insufferable thing which was welling up through the prodigious trap-door in that Cyclopean, immemorially archaic crypt of a lost world — and fell fainting with an inarticulate shriek of which I am not even ashamed.

By the time I revived there was no distinct image of anything in either eye of the monstrous mummy. Sergeant Keefe of the police looked with my glass, for I could not bring myself to face that abnormal entity again. And I thanked all the powers of the cosmos that I had not looked earlier than I did. It took all my resolution, and a great deal of solicitation, to make me relate what I had glimpsed in that hideous moment of revelation. Indeed, I could not speak till we had all adjourned to the ofiice below, out of sight of that demoniac thing which could not be. For I had begun to harbor the most terrible and fantastic notions about the mummy and its glassy, bulging eyes — that it had a kind of hellish consciousness, seeing all that occurred before it and trying vainly to communicate some frightful message from the gulfs of time. That meant madness — but at last I thought I might be better off if I told what I had half-seen.

After all, it was not a long thing to tell. Oozing and surging up out of that yawning trap-door in the Cyclopean crypt

I had glimpsed such an unbelievable behemothic monstrosity that I could not doubt the power of its original to kill with its mere sight. Even now I can not begin to suggest it with any words at my command. I might call it gigantic — tentacled — ^proboscidian — octopus-eyed — semi-amorphous — plastic — partly squamous and partly rugose — ugh! But nothing I could say could even adumbrate the loathsome, xuiholy, non-human, extragalactic horror and hatefulness and unutterable evil of that forbidden spawn of black chaos and illimitable night. As I write these words the associated mental image causes me to lean back faint and nauseated. As I told of the sight to the men around me in the office, I had to fight to preserve the consciousness I had regained.

Nor were my hearers much less moved. Not a man spoke above a whisper for a full quarter-hour, and there were awed, half-furtive references to the frightful lore in the Black Book, to the recent newspaper tales of cult-stirrings, and to the sinister events in the museiun. Ghatanothoa.... Even its smallest perfect image could petrify — T’yog — the false scroll — he never came back — the true scroll which could fully or partly undo the petrifaction — did it survive? — the hellish cults — the phrases overheard — "It is none other than he” — "He had looked upon its face” — "He knows all, though he can neither see nor feel” — "He has brought the memory down through the eons” — "The true scroll will release him” — "Nagob has the true scroll” — "He can tell where to find it.”

Only the healing grayness of the dawn brought us back to sanity; a sanity which made of that glimpse of mine a closed topic — something not to be explained or thought of again.

We gave out only partial reports to the



press, and later on co-operated with the papers in making other suppressions. For example, when the autopsy showed the brain and several other internal organs of the petrified Fijian to be fresh and unpetrified, though hermetically sealed by the petrifaction of the exterior flesh — an anomaly about which physicians are still guardedly and bewilderedly debating — we did not wish a furor to be started. We knew too well what the yellow journals, remembering what was said of the intactbrained and still-conscious state of Ghatanothoa’s stony-leathery victims, would make of this detail.

As matters stood, they pointed out that the man who had held the hieroglyphed scroll — and who had evidently thrust it at the mummy through the opening in the case — ^was not petrified, while the man who had not held it was. When they demanded that we make certain experiments — applying the scroll both to the stonyleathery body of the Fijian and to the mummy itself — ^we indignantly refused to abet such superstitious notions. Of course, the mummy was withdrawn from public view and transferred to the museum laboratory awaiting a really scientific examination before some suitable medical authority. Remembering past events, we kept it under a strict guard; but even so, an attempt was made to enter the museum at 2:25 a. m. on December fifth. Prompt working of the burglar alarm frustrated the design, though unfortunately the criminal or criminals escaped.

That no hint of anything further ever reached the public, I am profoundly thankful. I wish devoutly that there were nothing more to tell. There will, of course, be leaks, and if anything happens to me I do not know what my executors will do with tliis manuscript; but at least the case will not be painfully fresh in the multitude’s memory when the revelation

comes. Besides, no one will believe the facts when they are finally told. That is the curious thing about the multitude. When their yellow press makes hints, they are ready to swallow anything; but when a stupendous and abnormal revelation is actually made, they laugh it aside as a lie. For the sake of general sanity it is probably better so.

IHAVE said that a scientific examination of the frightful mummy was planned. This took place on December eighth, exactly a week after the hideous culmination of events, and was conducted by the eminent Doctor William Minot, in conjunction with Wentworth Moore, Sc. D., taxidermist of the museum. Doctor Minot had witnessed the autopsy of the_ oddly petrified Fijian the week before. There were also present Messrs. Lawrence Cabot and Dudley Saitonstall of the museum’s trustees. Doctors Mason, Wells, and Carver of the museum staff, two representatives of the press, and myself. During the week the condition of the hideous specimen had not visibly changed, though some relaxation of its fibers caused the position of the glassy, open eyes to shift slightly from time to time. All of the staff dreaded to look at the thing — for its suggestion of quiet, conscious watching had become intolerable — and it was only with an effort that I could bring myself to attend the examination.

Doctor Minot arrived shortly after 1:00 p. m., and within a few minutes began his survey of the mummy. Considerable disintegration took place under his hands, and in view of this — and of what we told him concerning the gradual relaxation of the specimen since the first of October — ^he decided that a thorough dissection ought to be made before the substance was further impaired. The



proper instruments being present in the laboratory equipment, he began at once; exclaiming aloud at the odd, fibrous nature of the gray, mummified substance.

But his exclamation was still louder when he made the first deep incision, for out of that cut there slowly trickled a thick crimson stream whose nature — despite the infinite ages dividing this hellish mummy’s life-time from the present— was utterly luimistakable. A few more deft strokes revealed various organs in astonishing degrees of non-petrified preservation — all, indeed, being intact except where injuries to the petrified exterior had brought about malformation or

destruction. The resemblance of this condition to that found in the fright-killed Fiji-Islander was so strong that the eminent physician gasped in bewilderment. The perfection of those ghastly bulging eyes was uncanny, and their exact state witli respect to petrifaction was very difficult to determine.

At 3:30 p. m. the brain-case was opened — and ten minutes later our stunned group took an oath of secrecy which only such guarded documents as this manuscript will ever modify. Even the two reporters were glad to confirm the silence. For the opening had reveded a pulsing, living brmn.

By JOHN FLANDERS

A story of the grim and terrible conflict that took place one night in a pawnbroker’s shop

OSHUA GULLICK the pawnbroker was a hard man to deal with.

All day long women crept into his dingy shop, spread out cloaks and overcoats on his counter and murmured pathetically:

"You can see it’s almost new, Mr. Gullick. Can’t you give me as much as a pound for it?’’

To which Joshua Gullick invariably replied, like a parrot:

"Two shillings.”

Then the poor woman would burst into tears and tell a sad story of a husband out of work and little children ill. But Joshua Gullick would repeat his litany:

"Two shillings, or you can take your home for elderly gipsy-moths and run along.”

In most cases it was the simple truth that the poor woman’s husband was scouring the Gravesend docks without digging up a scrap of a job to pay for the family’s bread and tea, and that a poor kiddy or two was coughing and moaning in a foul cellar in Battersea or Whitechapel. And the thing usually ended by the woman’s taking the two shillings and dragging herself out of the door. But sometimes she would call back some such bitter prophecy as:

"God will punish you, you skinflint!"

But Joshua Gullick, busy pinning a

W. T.— 6



ticket on the newly acquired garment, did not worry a great deal about God.

ONE evening a man came into the pawnbroker’s shop with a tale of wo which at least was different from the others.

"She can’t live another day, and I want so much to put the chain and the little cross back on her neck while she is still conscious. It will be a little bit of consolation ’’

Then, with a shudder, he lowered his voice and went on:

"And when — ^when it’s all over — I could bring it back to you.”

Joshua Gullick answered very politely: "Yes indeed, sir, your attachment to your family heirlooms is a real credit to you. But your sister got fourteen shillings on that little ornament, so that she owes me now, with the interest which has accumulated— let’s see — two pounds four shillings.”

"But I tell you, sir, I haven’t a penny —

at least not just now ”

"Tm sure you realize,” replied the money-lender in the same tone of perfect politeness, "that I am very sorry, especially since I knew your sister well, and honored her for her efforts to support herself by giving piano lessons — but business is business, you know ”

"Listen, Mr. Gullick. I don’t know whether I told you that I’ve just come back from Mexico. You know Mexico is in a terrible way just now. I was getting on very well there and was accumulating a little fortune, when the revolution broke out, and in an hour I was ruined.

"I got back here sick and despairing, pockets empty, not knowing which way to turn to keep from starving. And I found my sister, my poor, gentle little Edith, at the point of death. I know I’ll

get back on my feet again ”

W. T.— 7

Joshua Gullick raised his hands to heaven — a heaven shut off by the green ceiling from which hung a motley crew of gibbeted overcoats, tail-coats, women’s cloaks and capes, and costumes of every imaginable variety.

"I am an old man, sir, and I am not in a position to speculate on the future.”

"But I swear to you you will live long enough to see me bring back the chain and what I owe you on the loan.”

But the usurer shook his head energetically.

"I have told you the amount of the,debt, sir. It’s two pounds four exactly. And my time is valuable.”

The man slowly drew off his threadbare overcoat, but Joshua Gullick stopped him with a gesture.

"The most I could possibly let you have on it would be four shillings, and you would still owe me ”

But he never finished his sentence. His eye had chanced to fall on the man’s hand, and he caught the sparkle of a gorgeous stone.

"After all, sir, I have a soft heart, and I should be glad to do you a service if I could. I notice you have a handsome ring on your finger there — oh, yes, I can see that it’s only an imitation and that it isn’t worth much of anything, but I’m sorry for you and I can’t — I want to help you, and I should be willing to make a trade with you You let me have that ring, and I will give you back the chain and the gold cross ”

As this chaffering went on, it had grown dark. The feeble, whistling, twisting little gas jet did not do justice to the change which had suddenly come over the visitor’s face, and even if it had, Joshua Gullick would probably not have noticed it, for he had no eyes except for the ring. It was a beautifully shaped ser*



pent of brown metal, encircling a stone which emitted curious red flashes.

"Pawnbroker,” said the man slowly, "you say this stone is worth little or nothing?”

"I’d swear it on a Bible!” cried Gullick eagerly.

"You take your oath to it!” said the man in a strange low voice which to anybody but Joshua Gullick would have been ominous, threatening and terrible.

"I take my oath to it,” Gullick repeated fervently.

"Here is the ring,” said the man.

Gullick scarcely knew how it happened, but the ring seemed to glide off the visitor’s finger and around his own before either of the two had made a gesture. But he did not waste much time wondering, he was so filled with bewildered delight at the unbelievably fine business deal he had just concluded.

The man turned and walked slowly toward the door, playing abstractedly with the little chain and cross as he went. But before he reached the threshold, he turned back.

"Gullick,” he said, "I’m very sor-

"Bargain’s made!” snapped the pawnbroker.

"Oh, I wasn’t trying to back out,” said the other. "But I have a feeling I ought to warn you ”

By this time Gullick had begun to notice the strange, suppressed excitement in his client’s manner and the savage flame in his eyes. 'The old man squinted cautiously at the half-open drawer in which lay a big Colt revolver with all Seven chambers loaded.

'"rhat ring is an Aztec talisman. When you look at it with a magnifying-glass you can see a row of strange signs inscribed on the body of the serpent. The

inscription reads that if any one ever secures possession of the ring through dishonest means ”

"Sir,” growled the money-lender, "do you mean to insinuate ”

"It was in the Mexican mountains, one moonlight night, that I happened to meet the Indian who owned it. He had a bad case of fever. I had a little quinine with me, not enough. I’m sorry to say, to ”

"Sir,” interrupted Gullick, trembling for fear something might still happen to separate him from his bargain, "I never cared for stories of adventure. Goodnight!”

"But let me tell you ”

"Good-night!”

"Listen to ”

"Good-night!”

"Very well then, if you will have it so,” said the man, and disappeared in the darkness and the fog.

Joshua Gullick put up his shutters.

“Tt’s strange,” he said to himself. "I -I can’t get the thing off my finger.”

Like many of his trade, he was an expert in precious stones. But he had never before seen a jewel like this one. And it was after having abandoned his fruitless investigation and after having decided to put the ring away in his safe, that he made the discovery that it could not be removed from his finger.

"My hand must be a little swollen today,” he told himself.

And he set about his nightly task of getting ready in a special portfolio the obligations which fell due on the following day.

On the first of next December, I promise to pay to the order of Joshua Gullick the sum of forty pounds

"Good God! I’m going crazy!”

It was Gullick himself who had uttered this cry. And he had uttered it when he saw the leaping flame devour the note,



which had fallen into the open fireplace — the note which Gullick himself had thrown into the flames!

'Tm mad!” he groaned. 'Tm mad! I threw it in with my own hands! Oh Lord, Lord, Lord!”

A succession of frantic barks. With a sure and steady aim, he had tossed the whole portfolio into the fire.

He rushed to the grate, and reached for die leather case. The flames were already curling around it — but with a sudden change of direction his hand had shot out toward the open safe, and another package of notes flew into the flames.

"Mad and crazy! Mad and crazy!” he bellowed. "What devil is driving me.^”

His hand was fumbling feverishly in the drawers of his safe and hurling paper after paper into the grate. All at once Gullicic remembered.

"The ring!”

Ah! the ring clung firmly to his finger, buried in the flesh, half hidden under the livid, swollen tissue.

"No, no,” he panted. "I don’t want to, I don’t ”

He dragged himself across the floor on his knees, pleading with his own hand, which roved back juid forth like a crazy wild thing, throwing open account-books, tearing out pages, turning keys in locks, seizing packages of notes and tickets and tossing them into the crackling flames.

Then a furious rage seized him. He noticed in a corner of the room the hatchet with which he split his little supply of kindling.

"I’ll chop it off!” he roared. "I’ll chop it off!”

With his left hand he gripped the weapon. But the other hand, the hand which was no longer his, tore the dangerous tool free and hurled it across the room.

What a night it was!

Toward morning Joshua Gullick, lying exhausted against his empty safe, glared with haggard eyes at the dying fire, glutted with blackened scraps of paper. All at once the terrible hand grew active again. It pulled violently at his left wrist, forced him to rise to his feet, and after feeling around hastily, it took possession of a pen-holder.

I, the undersigned Joshua Gullick, declare all my debtors free of all financial obligation to me.

I restore all pledged articles to their owners. And I bequeath all my property to the poor of London.

I hereby declare that no one is responsible for my death.

Joshua Gullick stared at the paper. Was it he who had written that? He recognized his own handwriting, his own signature....

His old stubborn shrewdness began to come back to him a little. He saw that he had not the physical strength to defeat the enemy. But perhaps he could outwit that ring finger, after all....

There! His faithful left hand had tossed the crazy paper into the fire.

The right hand seemed to hesitate for a moment. Then it reached for the penholder again, and the document was quickly rewritten. And again — ah! — the left hand undid the insane folly of its fellow-member.

"Good heavens!”

The sharp claws of the right hand dug into the tough flesh of the left. Animated with a diabolical fury, the bewitched hand fought and struggled with its fellow.

The battle was grotesque, desperate, terrible.

Gullick tried in vain to shield his left hand behind his back, in his pockets, under the furniture. The odier always found it, clawed it, tore it, twisted it, broke the joints apart. Gullick suffered agonies of pain, and all his spasmodic struggling was unavailing.

At last the rent and broken left hand



hung helpless. And very deliberately and carefully, the right hand once more rewrote the last will and testament of Joshua Gullick. Then, slowly, methodically, it opened the drawer of the counter and took out the big revolver.

Joshua Gullick made no attempt at resistance. His vacant, glassy eyes reflected the yellow gaslight like the eyes of a dead man.

The muzzle of the revolver moved upward toward his temple. ^

Coming Soon—


By ARTHUR WILLIAM BERNAL

A stupendous weird serial novel of a space bandit whose exploits among the planets of our solar system made him a veritable Robin Hood of the airways.

This is not at all the usual type of interplanetary story, but is a glorious saga of a strange charaaer whose heroic feats won him the nickname, Satan. Watch for this thrilling epic in WEIRD TALES.

an

Vhej^

Who Could Not Go Home

By L. E. FRAILEY

A grim, human story about the Great War — a story with an unexpected ending

“"W '^ERY well, since you must have it,” said the young captain, "I ^ will tell you the story, but do not blame me if your dreams are bad tonight.”

We were passengers on the New York Central, and for several hours had been talking and smoking. One of us had asked the officer, whose left arm had remained in France, if it didn’t seem jolly to be going home, and he had answered that he was journeying a thousand miles out of his way to make good a mysterious promise. This had aroused our curiosity, and, although reluctant to say anything more, the captain had at last consented. # * # « «

From the beginning of our voyage home on the transport Liberty, I was curious about the occupant of Stateroom 17 — the one to the right of my own. Call it premonition, or what you will, I could not pass the closed door of that room without a strange feeling of fear — an emotion which I had not felt in such measure even while fighting in France. I wondered who the fellow might be, and why he kept to his quarters. You see, the door was always shut. I decided finally that he was one of the more severely wounded officers who could not go on deck.

But Number 17 was not a bed prisoner. That was evident. The first night

I heard him pacing up and down his quarters. At times, he played old songs, the sentimental kind, on a singularly sweet violin. Both in the music and the monotony of his walking, there was something that suggested a melancholy mind. Hour after hour he kept going, and as the partition was very thin between us, I felt like asking him to become quiet so that I could go to sleep. But I never did. Maybe I sensed it wouldn’t do any good, or maybe I just didn’t want to play the bully. I don’t know. But I did fall asleep finally, perhaps about midnight. I can’t be sure of that.

Toward morning — time for the sun to be coming up, as I understood later — I was half awakened by a commotion in the same room. You know how it is, gentlemen, when you have been sleeping soundly and are not ready to call it a night — how you are vaguely aware that things are going on, and yet so quickly go back to sleep that you are never sure what happened? Well, it was that way with me. I knew that several men were in the room, that they were talking low, and that at last they went out with dragging feet. As they went by my door, one of the men spoke to the others — "He’s better off than he was before” — and then I was asleep again. Sure — I know what you are thinking. I should have known. Well, maybe so, but it was all too much like a dream. I thought nothing more about




it until that last night on the ship — the one which I can never forget, and never understand.

Every night I continued to hear the music and the footsteps, but they didn’t bother me so much — ^not until the night before we reached New York. I was sitting in my stateroom, excited at the thought of landing the next day, going over all of the experiences of my two years in France. And then, suddenly and quite terribly, I began to be afraid. I didn’t know why. It is a sensation you would have to feel to understand, but I began to tremble and my body was wet with sweat. The diought came to me that more than anything else I wanted to get to bed and bury myself, in (he blankets. You see, the music of that violin seemed closer than ever before. The fellow was still walking up and down, but each time he stopped on the other side of the partition — he stopped and played for me! Maybe you don’t understand, but I couldn’t stand it. ’The wild notion came into my head that soon he wouldn’t stop — that he would walk right through that wall. I didn’t wait to see. I rushed out of my room and up to the deck.

Nerves? Sure, I told myself that. I was ashamed of my funk. I laughed to think how many dangers I had faced in France, only to run away from a fellow officer and his violin. I wondered what he would do if I stopped on the way bade to my room and knocked on his door. Why not?

I had alx)ut decided to do it, when one of the sailors touched my arm. It startled me a bit, especially when I saw that he was shaking and that his face was pale.

"Look here, my man,” I cried to him crossly, "what’s up? You look as if you had seen ”

But he wouldn’t let me finish. Thrusting a note into my hand, he hurriedly crossed himself and fied across the deck.

I never found out who the fellow was, or how he got the note, but you can imagine my astonishment when I discovered that it had been written by the occupant of Number 17. It was a short note, written in a peculiar hand. He wanted to see me — asked if I would mind coming to his quarters. It would only take a few minutes, the writer said, and was of great importance.

IREAD the note under one of the ship lamps; then I tossed it to the deck. For a while, I stood wondering if I wanted to go. You can laugh at me, if you wish, but the cold fear which had sent me bolting out of my stateroom had again swept over me. All during the voyage I had been wanting to see the fellow, and there I stood, afraid now that the chance had come. It is all still so unexplainable. Perhaps if it had not been for the package — but then I must stick to my story in the way it happened. You can explain for yourselves the mystery of that room.

’The fellow was playing his violin again when I got to his door, but when I knocked, the music stopped immediately, and in a few seconds the door opened. The light in the room was shaded, and at first I could see but little, I did notice, however, that the air seemed unusually cold, and, curiously enough, that there were no covers on the bed. That struck me as queer, but I forgot all about it as gradually there appeared the outlines of a tall figure standing at the other end of the room.

When the man spoke, I noticed that his voice was pleasant but quite imnatural in quality,

"Will you not sit down?” he began. "I thank you very much for coming. One can always count on a marine for a favor, even though the supplicant is a stranger,” By this time my eyes were becoming



more accustomed to the shadows. Imagine my astonishment when I saw that a mask concealed the lower half of the man’s face. Of course, as a soldier, I had become more or less indifferent to the unexpected, but the thought of the man meeting me with masked features was so far from my mind that I could not resist a start of surprize. I took a step backward toward the door.

In a second, however, I was ashamed of myself, for the manners of my host were those of a gentleman, and he wore the uniform of a colonel of the infantry. It was absurd that I should have doubted him. I took the stool which he had indicated and, while waiting for him to explain, studied all of his face that was not hidden.

The eyes, just above the mask, were large. The forehead was high. I could imagine that women must have loved his hair, for it was so boyishly curly — just the kind of hair that entwines easily about a woman’s fingers. He stood very erect, and in the tight-fitting fatigue blouse he suggested muscular quickness rather than brute strength. Above all, there was something unreal about the man, highly intensified by the dim light, the dull thumping of the engines below, and the insistent beating of the waters against the ship.

My nerves were jumping, and I was glad when he spoke again.

"You are wondering what I want of you and who I am. Is it not so. Captain Thomas?’’

"So strange a stimmons could hardly fail to arouse my curiosity, sir,’’ I answered. "I am content to wait, however, xmtil you are ready to explain.’’

I fancied that his big eyes were smiling at me for a second or so.

"Part of your curiosity — which is indeed justified — I may satisfy,’’ he said, "but some things are better left untold. Let it be enough that I am a stranger who

must take the liberty of asking a great service. Perhaps the fact that we both fought for the same cause, and’’ (his glance wandered to my empty coat sleeve) "have both suffered for it, is sufficient reason to make me hope you will not refuse my request.’’

I may have been rash to promise, but I felt keenly the speaker’s personality; besides, he was my superior ofiicer. I lost no time in assuring him that he could count on me for any reasonable service.

He was silent for a moment as if seeking the best way to begin. "Captain Thomas, you are looking forward to seeing home again, are you not? May I ask if you intend going there at once?’’ He put the questions calmly, but his voice had a queer break in it at the mention of the word home.

"Just as soon as the train will take me, sir,’’ I replied with enthusiasm. "You might not believe it, but there is a little woman and two kids in Virginia who are mighty anxious to see me — even if I am minus half an arm.”

I might have rambled on, but I noticed that my words seemed to hurt the man in the mask. There was a sudden droop to his shoulders, and he turned quickly away, pretending to glance out the open port-hole. I stopped in some confusion, and then, like a fool, made it worse by apologizing.

"I am sorry, sir,” I told him, "if I spoke of unpleasant things. I did not know ”

He turned back to me, and I thought I saw an escaping tear run truant-like under the black mask.

"Do not worry; it is nothing,” he said. "You are not to blame. Your words, however, brought back to me some very precious memories. It happens that I, too, have a wife and two kids waiting for me.

"Well, that’s jolly fine,” I interrupted.



"Isn’t it great to be out of the trenches — out of them and on the way home?"

"Great enough for you," he cried almost fiercely, "yes, but it is hell for me."

I thought then that I understood why my words about home had pained him.

"Forgive me, sir," I pleaded. "I have unintentionally touched upon a sorrow of yours. You mean that something has happened while you have been away?”

"No, nothing has happened — they are alive and well, thank God. I am the one who is dead.”

For a moment I thought he must be insane. He went on rapidly.

"You are going home. Captain Thomas. You will feel again the arms of your wife about you. Your children will cling to you and shout for a good old romp. At night, you will sit among them, and they will listen with big eyes while you tell them about what you did in France. As for your empty sleeve, they will worship you for it, and your children will brag about their soldier daddy to all their playmates. For you there is heaven — for me, nothing! I, too, have a wife and children, but I will never, never see them again. For me no happy reunion, no tiny fingers to cling to my uniform. For me nothing at all but eternal loneliness. Is not a man who can not ever hope to see his friends, his children, his wife — is not such a man one of the dead?"

He had spoken with tremendous passion, and even though I did not understand what he meant I knew that I had just witnessed the overflowing of a man’s soul filled to the uttermost with misery.

"I do not want to seem inquisitive," I said soothingly, “and yet — is there some reason why you can not go home?”

The interview had not prepared me for the answer to my question. With a quick step to the light, the man tore off the cloth which had shaded it, and, while

I blinked from the new brilliance, he rushed toward me.

"Look,” he screamed, "look — have I a reason? Would you want to go home like this?”

May God help me if ever a human being looked at anything more hideous than the face which he thrust within six inches of my own. Describe it I can not. Yet to forget it is impossible. All my life it will live in my memory — that mutilated countenance grinning at me in the stuffy stateroom.

"Take it away!” I shouted. "For God’s sake, let me get out of here!”

IMADE for the door, nauseated, trembling. My nerve was gone. I had only one thought — to get out into the open air as quickly as possible.

At the threshold, I shot one terrified glance over my shoulder. Instead of that awful thing, I saw only the mask-covered features of the colonel. He was standing with folded arms and bowed head.

A wave of pity swept over me. I paused, ashamed of my own weakness. While I hesitated, knowing not what to say, he spoke to me in the same precise tones which he had used in the early part of our meeting. Understanding the condition of the lower half of his face, I marveled to note how well he enunciated.

"Sit down again, Captain Thomas,” he said kindly, "and forgive me, if you can, for the rude manner in which I have frightened you, At least, you can now agree with me that I never could have gone home. Do not fear that you have offended me. With quite brutal candor, they told me in the French hospital that my wound was the most hideous they had ever seen. If the sight of my poor face so terrified you, a soldier, imagine what the result would have been upon mjr wife.”



I did not argue. In my heart, I knew he was right. I ofiFered one suggestion.

"Couldn’t you always wear the mask?’’

I asked.

"Quite impossible,” he responded. "It is a tragedy I would not wish to bring into her life. By now my name has already been reported among the dead. I would rather live in her memory as I once was than live in her presence as I now am.”

I remained silent, still sick at what I had beheld.

"That is why I sent for you,” he continued. "I want you to go to her. I have a little package. Tell her I gave it to you just before I died. In the package is a medal. It will mean much to her — and some day the children will prize it, too.”

He handed me a little box, neatly wrapped in brown paper, and I took it mechanically.

"Make it as easy for her as you can. Tell her I was glad to die for my country and that she must be happy — if only because I wanted her to be.”

"But there is no address on the package— I do not know your name — — ”

"You will find it inside,” he interrupted. "It has two wrappers. Please do me the favor not to open the package, or seek to read the address, until you land.”

He drew himself to the position of a soldier and looked at me with stern intensity.

"On your honor as a gentleman and an officer,” he commanded, "promise me to do what I have asked.”

"On my honor, I swear to do it,” I cried. "But you — ^what are you going to do?”

"That was not difficult to decide,” he replied, as he opened the door. "It is a great service you are doing me. Good night.”

I did not want to go, but what else could I do? As I passed him, he suddenly

held out his hand. His grasp was firm. There were tears in my eyes and a lump in my throat.

"Thomas,” he said, "if you see the little ones, kiss them for me.”

I nodded, then the door closed behind me. In some way, I found my way back to the upper deck. I felt that I must have fresh air and plenty of it.

It was past eleven o’clock, and most of those on the ship were asleep. Occasionally, the full moon eluded the rushing clouds, and for a few seconds I could see the ugly waves beneath.

I had fallen into a melancholy retrospection, leaning on the rail, when I heard a sudden splash as if something heavy had been thrown into the water. For just a moment, the moon escaped the clouds, and I thought I could make out the body of a man. Was it my imagination, or did I really see, down there staring up at me, the mutilated face of the man in Number 17?

The young captain hesitated. "Gentlemen,” he said nervously, "it has not been easy to tell you this story. The rest I do not expect you to either believe

or understand. And yet ”

We gazed at him in mute sympathy, our foreheads wet with sweat.

"Don’t stop!” stammered the traveling man who sat huddled in one corner of the smoker. "Tell us what happened to the colonel. Did you actually see him in the water?”

The captain shuddered. "That I do not know,” he replied. "I realize now, as I did not then, the significance of many of the incidents in that strange experience. Piece by piece, I can put them together now. So can you. There was that commotion in the room the second morning — and the fellow’s remark that he was better off than before. Remember, too.



the sailor who gave me the colonel’s note. I told you how he trembled. 'Those things, I suppose, should have prepared me for what I discovered about that stateroom. But ”

"Well, what did you discover?” I pleaded.

The captain hesitated. I think he feared to end his story, feared that we would not believe him.

"You see,” he finally said, "I rushed below and dashed down the passageway. I kicked open the door, but Number 17 was empty. I called the commander. He said that the colonel had died on the second night of our voyage. The door had been locked ever since. The colonel had been buried at sea.”

For a moment, probably we all felt that we had been cheated in the telling of the story. At least, the man in the comer laughed. "Oh, so it was only a dream,” he said. "There wasn’t any man in a mask after all.”

"Perhaps you are right,” replied the captain slowly, "but do not decide too quickly.”

'The air in the smoker seemed suddenly to grow damp and thin, and our faces as white as the frosted windows, as the captain extended his hand so that we all could see.

"Maybe a dream,” he said, "but there is still a promise for me to keep. You see — here is the package which I must give to the colonel’s wife.”

Watch for this amazing story—

The Horror in the Studio

By DOROTHY QUICK

•

A startling tale of Holl3wood and the moving picture industry. A tale that will hold your breathless interest. The story of an unutterable horror out of the dark ages — a ghastly horror that stunned the motion picture world with its tragedy.

Hollywood has produced a number of weird pictures; but none of them could approach in weirdness this gripping tale about the making of motion pictures.

Watch for it in WEIRD TALES

House at

By CRISTEL HASTINGS

Night

Quiet enough at noon among its trees

And weed-grown paths that slumber in the sun, The empty house seems settled back at ease Watching the gray years drift by, one by one.

Here bees may drone and plunder at their will In gardens long forgotten — ^here a bird May twitter under eaves where all is still And somnolent — where never voice is heard.

But let night come! — the old house is dhe

With sound and motion with each wind that sighs! An empty house at night becomes a hive Of creeping monsters with a thousand eyes.

Each leaf that falls is like a giant’s stride Across a roof velvet with moss and mold —

Here settling timbers creak — ^here dragons hide To slither from their attics, queerly bold.

The empty rooms are peopled in the gloom

With hordes of shapeless, voiceless ghosts that roam Through doors and windows and from room to room Of this lone place that once was known as Home.

Winds weep and wail the long nights through — old doors Move back and forth propelled by unseen hands On hinges long unused — along the floors

Sly forms may stalk the boards in fearsome bands.

Huge spiders spin their curtains, gray and wide.

On grimy windows shutting out the light For fear some passer-by may see inside

The ghostly things that haunt the place at night.


‘^heC2

wanal

By EVERIL WORRELL

PAST the sleeping city the river sweeps; along its left bank the old canal creeps.

I did not intend that to be poetry, although the scene is poetic — somberly, gruesomely poetic, like the poems of Poe. Too well I know it — too often have I walked over the grass-grown path beside the reflections of black trees and tumbledown shacks and distant factory chimneys in the sluggish waters that moved so slowly, and ceased to move at all.

I shall be called mad, and I shall be a suicide. I shall take no pains to cover up my trail, or to hide the thing that I shall do. What will it matter, afterward, what they say of me? If they knew the truth — if they could vision, even dimly, the beings with whom I have consorted — if the faintest realization might be theirs of the thing I am becoming, and of the fate from which I am saving their city — then they would call me a great hero. But it does not matter what they call me, as I have said before. Let me write down the things I am about to write down, and let them be taken, as they will be taken, for the last ravings of a madman. The city will be in mourning for the thing I shall

•From Weim) Tales for December, 1927.


have done — but its mourning will be of no consequence beside that other fate from which I shall have saved it.

IHAVE always had a taste for nocturnal prowling. We as a race have grown too intelligent to take seriously any of the old, instinctive fears that preserved us through preceding generations. Our sole remaining salvation, then, has come to be our tendency to travel in herds. We wander at night — but our objective is somewhere on the brightly lighted streets, or still somewhere where men do not go alone. When we travel far afield, it is in company. Few of my acquaintance, few in the whole city here, would care to ramble at midnight over the grass-grown path I have spoken of; not because they would fear to do so, but because such things are not being done.

Well, it is dangerous to differ individually from one’s fellows. It is dangerous to wander from the beaten road. And the fears that guarded the race in the dawn of time and through the centuries were real fears, founded on reality.

A month ago, I was a stranger here. I had just taken my first position — I was graduated from college only three months



before, in the spring. I was lonely, and likely to remain so for some time, for I have always been of a solitary nature, making friends slowly.

I had received one invitation out — to visit the camp of a fellow employee in the firm for which I worked, a camp which was located on the farther side of the wide river — the side across from the city and the canal, where the bank was high and steep and heavily wooded, and little tents blossomed all along the water’s edge. At night these camps were a string of sparkling lights and tiny, leaping campfires, and the tinkle of music carried faintly far across the calmly flowing water. That far bank of the river was no place for an eccentric, solitary man to love. But the near bank, which would have been an eyesore to the campers had not the river been so wide — the near bank attracted me from my first glimpse of it.

We embarked in a motor-boat at some distance downstream, and swept up along the near bank, and then out and across the current. I turned my eyes backward. The murk of stagnant water that was the canal, the jumble of low buildings beyond it, the lonely, low-lying waste of the narrow strip of land between canal and river, the dark, scattered trees growing there — I intended to see more of these things.

That week-end bored me, but I repaid myself no later than Monday evening, the first evening when I was back in the city, alone and free. I ate a solitary dinner immediately after leaving the office. I went to my room and slept frqm seven until nearly midnight. I weened naturally, then, for my whole heart was set on exploring the alluring solitude I had discovered. I dressed, slipped out of the house and into the street, started the motor in my roadster and drove through the lighted streets.

I left behind that part of town which was thick with vehicles carrying people home from their evening engagements, and began to thread my way through darker and narrower streets. Once I had to back out of a cul-de-sac, and once I had to detour around a closed block. This part of town was not alluring, even to me. It was dismal without being solitary.

But when I had parked my car on a rough, cobbled street that ran directly down into the inky waters of the canal, and crossed a narrow bridge, I was repaid. A few minutes set my feet on the old tow-path where mules had drawn river-boats up and down only a year or so ago. Across the canal now, as I walked upstream at a swinging pace, the miserable shacks where miserable people lived seemed to march with me, and then fell behind. They looked like places in which murders might be committed, every one of them.

The bridge I had crossed was near the end of the city going north, as the canal marked its western extremity. Ten minutes of walking, and the dismal shacks were quite a distance behind, the river was farther away and the strip of waste land much wider and more wooded, and tall trees across the canal marched with me as the evil-looking houses had done before. Far and faint, the sound of a bell in the city reached my ears. It was midnight.

ISTOPPED, enjoying the desolation around me. It had the savor I had expected and hoped for. I stood for some time looking up at the sky, watching the low drift of heavy clouds, which were visible in the dull reflected glow from distant lights in the heart of the city, so that they appeared to have a lurid phosphorescence of their own. The ground under my feet, on the contrary, was utterly devoid of light. I had felt my way



carefully, knowing the edge of the canal partly by instinct, partly by the even more perfect blackness of the water in it, and even holding fairly well to the path, because it was perceptibly sunken below the ground beside it.

Now as I stood motionless in this spot, my eyes upcast, my mind adrift with strange fancies, suddenly my feelings of satisfaction and well-being gave way to something different. Fear was an emotion unknown to me — for those things which make men fear, I had always loved. A graveyard at night was to me a charming place for a stroll and meditation. But now the roots of my hair seemed to move upright on my head, and along all the length of my spine I was conscious of a prickling, tingling sensation — such as my forefathers may have felt in the jungle when the hair on their backs stood up as the hair of my head was doing now. Also, I was afraid to move; and I knew that there were eyes upon me, and that that was why I was afraid to move. I was afraid of those eyes — afraid to see them, to look into them.

All this while, I stood perfectly still, my face uptilted toward the sky. But after a terrible mental effort, I mastered myself.

Slowly, slowly, with an attempt to propitiate the owner of the unseen eyes by my casual manner, I lowered my own. I looked straight ahead — at the softly swaying silhouette of the tree-tops across the canal as they moved gently in the cool night wind; at the mass of blackness that was those trees, and the opposite shore; at the shiny blackness where the reflections of the clouds glinted vaguely and disappeared, that was the canal. And again I raised my eyes a little, for just across the canal where the shadows massed most heavily, there was that at which I must look more closely. And now, as I grew accustomed to the greater blackness and

my pupils expanded, I dimly discerned the contours of an old boat or barge, half sunken in the water. An old, abandoned canal-boat. But was I dreaming, or was there a white-clad figure seated on the roof of the low cabin aft, a pale, heartshaped face gleaming strangely at me from the darkness, the glow of two eyes seeming to light up the face, and to detach it from the darkness?

Surely, there could be no doubt as to the eyes. They shone as the eyes of animals shine in the dark, with a phosphorescent gleam, and a glimmer of red! Well, I had heard that some human eyes have that quality at night.

But what a place for a human being to be — a girl, too, I was sure. That daintily heart-shaped face was the face of a girl, surely; I was seeing it clearer and clearer, either because my eyes were growing more accustomed to peering into the deeper shadows, or because of that phosphoresance in the eyes that stared back at me.

IRAISED my voice softly, not to break too much the stillness of the night. "Hello! who’s there? Are you lost, or marooned, and can I help?’’

There was a little pause. I was conscious of a soft lapping at my feet. A stronger night wind had sprung up, was ruffling the dark waters. I had been overwarm, and where it struck me the perspiration turned cold on my body, so that I shivered imcontrollably.

"You can stay — and talk awhile, if you will. I am lonely, but not lost. I — I live here.”

I could hardly believe my ears. The voice was little more than a whisper, but it had carried clearly — a girl’s voice, sure enough. And she lived there — in an old, abandoned canal-boat, half submerged in the stagnant water.

"You are not done there?”



"No, not alone. My father lives here with me, but he is deaf — and he sleeps soundly.”

Did the night wind blow still colder, as though it came to us from some unseen, frozen sea — or was there something in her tone that chilled me, even as a strange attraction drew me toward her? I wanted to draw near to her, to see closely the pale, heart-shaped face, to lose myself in the bright eyes that I had seen shining in the darkness. I wanted — I wanted to hold her in my arms, to find her mouth with mine, to kiss it....

With a start, I realized the nature of my thoughts, and for an instant lost all thought in surprize. Never in my twentytwo years had I felt love before. My fancies had been otherwise direaed — a moss-grown, fallen gravestone was a dearer thing to me to contemplate than the fairest face in all the world. Yet, surely, what I felt now was love!

I took a reckless step nearer the edge of the bank.

"Could I come over to you?” I begged. "It’s warm, and I don’t mind a wetting. It’s late, I know — but I would give a great deal to sit beside you and talk, if only for a few minutes before I go back to town. It’s a lonely place here for a girl like you to live — your father should not mind if you exchange a few words with someone occasionally.”

Was it the unconventionality of my request that made her next words sound like a long-drawn shudder of protest? ’There was a strangeness in the tones of her voice that held _me wondering, every time she spoke.

"No, no. Oh, no! You must not swim across.”

'"rhen — could I come tomorrow, or some day soon, in the daytime; and would you let me come on board then — or would you come on shore and talk to me, perhaps?”

"Not in the daytime — never in the daytime!”

Again the intensity of her low-toned negation held me spellbound.

It was not her sense of the impropriety of the hour, then, that had diaated her manner. For surely, any girl with the slightest sense of the fitness of things would rather have a tryst by daytime than after midnight — yet there was an inference in her last words that if I came again it should be again at night.

Still feeling the spell that had enthralled me, as one does not forget the presence of a drug in the air that is stealing one’s senses, even when those senses begin to wander and to busy themselves with other things, I yet spoke shortly.

"Why do you say, 'Never in the daytime’? Do you mean that I may come more than this once at night, though now you won’t let me cross the canal to you at the expense of my own clothes, and you won’t put down your plank or drawbridge or whatever you come on shore with, and talk to me here for only a moment? I’ll come again, if you’ll let me talk to you instead of calling across the water. I’ll come again, any time you will let me — day or night, I don’t care. I want to come to you. But I only ask you to explain. If I came in the daytime and met your father, wouldn’t that be the best thing to do? Then we could be really acquainted— we could be friends.”

"In the nighttime, my father sleeps. In the daytime, / sleep. How could I talk to you, or introduce you to my father then? If you came on board this boat in the daytime, you would find my father — and you would be sorry. As for me, I would be sleeping. I could never introduce you to my father, do you see?”

"You sleep soundly, you and your father.” Again there was pique in my voice.

"Yes, we sleep soundly.”

"And always at different times?”



"Always at diflferent times. We are on guard — one of us is always on guard. We have been hardly used, down there in your city. And we have taken refuge here. And we are always — always — on guard.”

The resentment vanished from my breast, and I felt my heart go out to her anew. She was so pale, so pitiful in the night. My eyes were learning better and better how to pierce the darkness; they were giving me a more definite picture of my companion — if I could think of her as a companion, between myself and whom stretclied the black water.

The sadness of the lonely scene, the perfection of the solitude itself, these things contributed to her pitifulness. Then there was that strangeness of atmosphere of which, even yet, I had only partly taken note. There was the strange, shivering chill, which yet did not seem like the healthful chill of a cool evening. In fact, it did not prevent me from feeling the oppression of the night, which was imusually sultry. It was like a little breath of deadly cold that came and went, and yet did not alter the temperature of the air itself, as the small ripples on the surface of the water do not concern the water even a foot down.

And even that was not all. There was an unwholesome smell about the night — a dank, moldy smell that might have been the very breath of death and decay. Even I, the connoisseur in all things dismal and unwholesome, tried to keep my mind from dwelling overmuch upon that smell. What it must be to live breathing it constantly in, I could not think. But no doubt the girl and her father were used to it; and no doubt it came from the stagnant water of the canal and from the rotting wood of the old, half-sunken boat that was their refuge.

My heart throbbed with pity again. Their refuge — what a place! And my

clearer vision of the girl showed me that she was pitifully thin, even though possessed of the strange face that drew me to her. Her clothes hung around her like old rags, but hers was no scarecrow aspect. Although little flesh clothed her bones, her very bones were beautiful. I was sure the little, pale, heart-shaped face would be more beautiful still, if I could only see it closely. I must see it closely — I must establish some claim to consideration as a friend of the strange, lonely crew of the half -sunken wreck.

"This is a poor place to call a refuge,” I said finally. "One might have very little money, and yet do somewhat better. Perhaps I might help you — I am sure I could. If your ill-treatment in the city was because of poverty — I am not rich, but I could help that. I could help you a little with money, if you would let me; or, in any case, I could find a position for you. I’m sure I could do that.”

The eyes that shone fitfully toward me like two small pools of water intermittently lit by a cloud-swept sky seemed to glow more brightly. She had been half crouching, half sitting on top of the cabin; now she leaped to her feet with one quick, sinuous, abrupt motion, and took a few rapid, restless steps to and fro before she answered.

When she spoke, her voice was little more than a whisper; yet surely rage was in its shill sibilance.

"Fool! Do you think you would be helping me, to tie me to a desk, to shut me behind doors, away from freedom, away from the delight of doing my own will, of seeking my own way.? Never, never would I let you do that. Rather this old boat, rather a deserted grave xmder the stars, for my home!”

A boundless surprize swept over me, and a positive feeling of kinship with this strange being, whose face I had hardly

W.T.— 7


51J

seen, possessed me. So I myself might have spoken, so I had often felt, though I had never dreamed of putting my thoughts so definitely, so forcibly. My regularized daytime life was a thing I thought little of; I really lived only in my nocturnal prowlings. Why, this girl was right! All of life should be free, and spent in places that interested and attraaed.

How little, how little I knew, that night, that dread forces were tugging at my soul, were finding entrance to it and easy access through the morbid weakness of my nature! How little I knew at what a cost I deviated so radically from my kind, who herd in cities and love well-lit ways and the sight of man, and sweet and wholesome places to be solitary in, when the desire for solitude comes over them!

That night it seemed to me that there was but one important thing in life — to allay the angry passion my unfortunate words had aroused in the breast of my beloved, and to win from her some answering feeling.

"I understand — much better than you think,” I whispered tremulously. "^JtTiat I want is to see you again, to come to know you, and to serve you in any way that I may. Surely, there must be something in which I can be of use to you. All you have to do from tonight on for ever, is to command me. I swear it!”

"You swear that — you do swear it?”

Delighted at the eagerness of her words, I lifted my hand toward the dark heavens.

"I swear it. From this night on, for ever — I swear it.”

"Then listen. Tonight you may not come to me, nor I to you. I do not want you to board this boat — not tonight, not any night. And most of all, not any day. But do not look so sad. I will come to you. No, not tonight, perhaps not for many nights — ^yet before very long. I W. T.— 8

will come to you there, on the bank of the canal, when the water in the canal ceases to flow.”

I must have made a gesture of impatience, or of despair. It sounded like a way of saying "never” — for why should the water in the canal cease to flow? She read my thoughts in some way, for she answered them.

"You do not understand. I am speaking seriously — I am promising to meet you there on the bank, and soon. For the water within these banks is moving slower, always slower. Higher up, I have heard that the canal has been drained. Between these lower locks, the water still seeps in and drops slowly, slcTwly downstream. But there will come a night when it will be quite, quite stagnant — and on that night I will come to you. And when I come, I will ask of you a favor. And you will keep your oath.”

IT WAS all the assurance I could get that night. She had come back to die side of the cabin where she had sat crouched before, and she resumed again that posture and sat still and silent, watching me. Sometimes I could see her eyes upon me, and sometimes not. But I felt that their gaze was unwavering. The little cold breeze, which I had finally forgotten while I was talking with her, was blowing again, and the unwholesome smell of decay grew heavier before the dawn.

She would not speak again, nor answer me when I spoke to her, and I grew nervous, and strangely ill at ease.

At last I went away. And in the first faint light of dawn I slipped up the stairs of my rooming-house, and into my own room.

I was deadly tired at the office next day. And day after day slipped away and I grew more and more weary; for a man can not wake day and night without suffering, especially in hot weatlier, and that



was what I was doing. I haunted the old tow-path and waited, night after night, on the bank opposite the sunken boat. Sometimes I saw my lady of the darkness, and sometimes not. When I saw her, she spoke little; but sometimes she sat there on the top of the cabin and let me watch her till the dawn, or until the strange uneasiness that was like fright drove me from her and back to my room, where I tossed restlessly in the heat and dreamed strange dreams, half waking, till the sun shone in on my forehead and I tumbled into my clothes and down to the office again.

Once I asked her why she had made the fanciful condition that she would not come ashore to meet me until the waters of the canal had ceased to run. (How eagerly I studied those waters! Howl stole away at noontime more than once, not to approach the old boat, but to watch the almost imperceptible downdrift of bubbles, bits of straw, twigs, rubbish!)

My questioning displeased her, and I asked her that no more. It was enough that she chose to be whimsical. My part was to wait.

It was more than a week later that I questioned her again, this time on a different subject. And after that, I curbed my curiosity relentlessly.

"Never speak to me of things you do not imderstand about me. Never again, or I will not show myself to you again. And when I walk on the path yonder, it will not be with you.”

I had asked her what form of persecution she and her father had suffered in the city, that had driven them out to this lonely place, and where in the city they had lived.

Frightened seriously lest I lose the ground I was sure I had gained with her, I was about to speak of something else. But before I could find the words, her low voice came to me again.

"It was horrible, horrible! Those little houses below the bridge, those houses along the canal — tell me, are they not worse than my boat.^ Life there was shut in, and furtive. I was not free as I am now — and the freedom I will soon have will make me forget the things I have not yet forgotten. The screaming, the reviling and cursing! Fear and flight! As you pass back by those houses, think how you would like to be shut in one of them, and in fear of your life. And then think of them no more; for I would forget them, and I will never speak of them again.”

I dared not answer her, I was surprized that she had vouchsafed me so much. But surely her words meant this: that before she had come to live on the decaying, water-rotted old boat, she had lived in one of those horrible houses I passed by on my way to her. Those houses, each of which looked like the predestined scene of a murder!

As I left her that night, I felt that I was very daring.

"One or two nights more and you will walk beside me,” I called to her. "I have watched the water at noon, and it hardly moves at all. I threw a scrap of paper into the canal, and it whirled and swung a little where a thin skim of oil lay on the water down there — oil from the big, dirty city you are well out of. But though I watched and watched, I could not see it move downward at all. Perhaps tomorrow night, or the night after, you will walk on the bank with me. I hope it will be clear and moonlight, and I will be near enough to see you clearly — as well as you seem always to see me in darkness or moonlight, equally well. And perhaps I will kiss you — but not unless you let me.”

And yet, the next day, for the first time my thoughts were definitely troubled. I had been living in a dream — I



began to speculate concerning the end of the path on which my feet were set.

I had conceived, from the first, such a horror of those old houses by the canal! They were well enough to walk past, nursing gruesome thoughts for a midnight treat. But, much as I loved all that was weird and eery about the girl I was wooing so strangely, it was a little too much for my fancy that she had come from them.

By THIS time, I had become decidedly unpopular in my place of business. Not that I had made enemies, but that my peculiar ways had caused too much adverse comment. It would have taken very little, I think, to have made the entire office force decide that I was mad. After the events of the next twenty-four hours, and after this letter is found and read, they will be sure that they knew it all along! At this time, however, they were punctiliously polite to me, and merely let me alone as much as possible — which suited me perfectly. I dragged wearily through day after day, exhausted from lack of sleep, conscious of their speculative glances, living only for the night to come.

But on this day, I approached the man who had invited me to the camp across the river, who had unknowingly shown me the way that led to my love.

"Have you ever noticed the row of tumble-down houses along the canal on the city side?” I asked him.

He gave me an odd look. I suppose he sensed the significance of my breaking silence after so long to speak of them — sensed that in some way I had a deep interest in them.

"You have odd tastes, Morton,” he said after a moment. "I suppose you wander into strange places sometimes — I’ve heard you speak of an enthusiasm for graveyards at night. But my advice

to you is to keep away from those houses. They’re unsavory, and their reputation is unsavory. Positively, I think you’d be in danger of your life, if you go poking around there. They have been the scene of several murders, and a dope den or two has been cleaned out of them. Why in the world you should want to investigate them ”

"I don’t expea to investigate them,” I said testily. "I was merely interested in them — from the outside. To tell you the truth. I’d heard a story, a rumor — never mind where. But you say there have been murders there — I suppose this rumor I heard may have had to do with an attempted one. There was a girl who lived there with her father once, and they were set upon there, or something of the sort, and had to run away. Did you ever hear that story?”

Barrett gave me an odd look such as one gives in speaking of a past horror so dreadful that the mere speaking of it makes it live terribly again.

"What you say reminds me of a horrible thing that was said to have happened down there once,” he said. "It was in all the papers. A little child disappeared in one of those houses, and a couple of poor lodgers who lived there, a girl and her father, were accused of having made away with it. They were accused — they were accused — oh, well, I don’t like to talk about such things. It was too dreadful. The child’s body was found — part of it was found. It was mutilated, and the people in the house seemed to believe it had been mutilated in order to conceal the manner of its death; there was an ugly wound in the throat, it finally came out, and it seemed as if the child might have been bled to death. It was found in the girl’s room, hidden away. The old man and his daughter escaped, before the police were called. The countryside was scoured, but



they were never found. Why, you must have read it in the papers, several years ago.”

I nodded, with a heavy heart. I had read it in the papers, I remembered now. And again, a terrible questioning came over me. Who was this girl, what was this girl, who seemed to have my heart in her keeping?

Why did not a merciful God let me die then?

Befogged with exhaustion, bemused in a dire enchantment, my mind was incapable of thought. And yet, some soul-process akin to that which saves the sleepwalker poised at perilous heights sounded its warning now.

My mind was filled with doleful images. There were women — I had heard and read — who slew to satisfy a bloodlust. There were ghosts, specters — call them what you will, their names have been legion in the dark pages of that lore which dates back to the infancy of the races of the earth — who retained even in death this blood-lust. Vampires — they had been called that. I had read of them. Corpses by day, spirits of evil by night, roaming abroad in their own forms or in the forms of bats or unclean beasts, killing body and soul of their victims— for whoever dies of the repeated "kiss” of the vampire, which leaves its mark on the throat and draws the blood from the body, becomes a vampire also — of such beings I had read.

And, horror of horrors! In that last cursed day at the office, I remembered reading of these vampires — these undead — that in their nocturnal flights they had one limitation — they could not cross running water.

That night I went my usual nightly way with tears of weakness on my face — for my weakness was supreme, and I recognized fully at last the misery of

being the victim of an enchantment stronger than my feeble will. But I went.

I approached the neighborhood of the canal-boat as the distant city clock chimed the first stroke of twelve. It was the dark of the moon and the sky was overcast. Heat-lightning flickered low in the sky, seeming to come from every point of the compass and circumscribe the horizon, as if unseen fires burned behind the rim of the world. By its fitful glimmer, I saw a new thing: between the old boat and the canal bank stretched a long, slim, solid-looking shadow — a plank had been let down! In that moment, I realized that I had been playing with powers of evil which had no intent now to let me go, which were indeed about to lay hold upon me with an inexorable grasp. Why had I come tonight? Why, but that the spell of the enchantment laid upon me was a thing more potent, and far more unbreakable, than any wholesome spell of love? The creature I sought out — oh, I remembered now, with the cold perspiration beading my brow, the lore hidden away between die covers of the dark old book which I had read so many years ago and half forgotten! — until dim memories of it stirred within me, this last day and night.

My lady of the night! No woman of wholesome flesh and blood and odd perverted tastes that matched my own, but one of the undead! In that moment, I knew it, and knew that the vampires of old legends polluted still, in these latter days, the fair surface of the earth.

And on the instant, behind me in the darkness there was the crackle of a twig, and something brushed against my arm.

This, then, was the fulfilment of my dream. I knew, without turning my head, that the pale, dainty face with its glowing eyes was near my own — that I had (Please turn to page 518)

YOU'LL GET the; SURPRISE OF YOUR LIFE



SCIENTinC SEXUALIA



The largest publishers in America of

Privately Printed Books on LOVE • WOMAN • SEX will send you ILLUSTRATED Confidential Catalogues FREE

MAIL THIS COUPONmTVQNCE!

THE PANURGE PRESS • 70 FIFTH AVENUE • NEW YORK

Please send me in plain sealed envelope FREE your ILLUSTRATED brochures on privately printed books.

Name Age

Address

DEPT. 1804





(Continued from page 316) only to stretch out my arm to touch the slender grace of the girl I had so longed to draw near. I knew, and should have felt the rapture I had anticipated. Instead, the roots of my hair prickled coldly, unendurably, as they had on the night when I had first sighted the old boat. The miasmic odors of the night, heavy and oppressive with heat and unrelieved by a breath of air, all but overcame me, and I fought with myself to prevent my teeth clicking in my head. The little waves of coldness I had felt often in this spot were chasing over my body, yet they were not from any breeze; the leaves on the trees hung down motionless, as though they were actually wilting on their branches.

With an effort, I turned my head.

Two hands caught me around my neck. The pale face was so near that I felt the warm breath from its nostrils fanning my cheek.

And, suddenly, all that was wholesome in my perverted nature rose uppermost. I longed for the touch of the red mouth, like a dark flower opening before me in the night. I longed for it — and yet more I dreaded it. I shrank back, catching in a powerful grip the fragile wrists of the hands that strove to hold me. I must not —I must not yield to the faintness that I felt stealing over me.

I was facing down the path toward the city. A low rumble of thunder — the first — broke the torrid hush of the summer night. A glare of lightning seemed to tear the night asunder, to light up the universe. Overhead, the clouds were careering madly in fantastic shapes, driven by a wind that swept the upper heavens without causing even a trembling in the air lower down. And far down the canal, that baleful glare seemed to play around and hover over the little row of shanties — ^murder-cursed, and haunted by the ghost of a dead child.

My gaze was fixed on them, while I held away from me the pallid face and fought off the embrace that sought to overcome my resisting will. And so a long moment passed. The glare faded out of the sky, and a greater darkness took the world. But there was a near, more menacing glare fastened upon my face — ^the glare of two eyes that watched mine, that had watclied me as I, unthinking, stared down at the dark houses.

This girl — this woman who had come to me at my own importunate requests, did not love me, since I had shrunk from her. She did not love me — but it was not only that. She had watched me as I gazed down at the houses that held her dark past, and I was sure that she divined my thoughts. She knew my horror of tliose houses — she knew my new-born horror of her. And she hated me for it, hated me more malignantly than I had believed a human being could hate.

And at that point in my thoughts, I felt my skin prickle and my scalp rise again: could a human being cherish such hatred as I read, trembling more and more, in those glowing fires lit with what seemed to me more like the fires of hell than any light that ought to shine in a woman’s eyes?

And through all this, not a word had passed between us!

So FAR I have written calmly. I wish that I could write on so, to the end. If I could do that, there might be one or two of those who will regard this as the document of a maniac, who would believe the horrors of which I am about to write.

But I am only flesh and blood. At this point in the happenings of the awful night, my calmness deserted me — at this point I felt that I had been drawn into the midst of a horrible nightmare from which there was no escape, no waking!



As I write, this feeling again overwhelms me, until I can hardly write at all — until, were it not for the thing which I must do, I would rush out into the street and run, screaming, until I was caught and dragged away, to be put behind strong iron bars. Perhaps I would feel safe there — perhaps!

I know that, terrified at the hate I saw confronting me in those redly gleaming eyes, I would have slunk away. The two thin hands that caught my arm again were strong enough to prevent that, however. I had been spared her kiss, but I was not to escape from the oath I had taken to serve her.

"You promised, you swore,” she hissed in my ear. "And tonight you are to keep your oath.”

I felt my senses reel. My oath — yes, I had an oath to keep. I had lifted my hand toward the dark heavens, and sworn to serve her in any way she chose. Freely, and of my own volition, I had sworn.

I sought to evade her.

"Let me help you back to your boat,” I begged. "You have no kindly feeling for me, and — you have seen it — I love you no longer. I will go back to the city — you can go back to your father, and forget that I broke your peace.”

The laughter that greeted my speech I shall never forget — not in the depths under the scummy surface of the canal — not in the empty places between the worlds, where my tortured soul may wander.

"So you do not love me, and I hate you! Fool! Have I waited these weary months for the water to stop, only to go back now.? After my father and I returned here and found the old boat rotting in the drained canal, and took refuge in it; when the water was turned into the canal while I slept, so that I could never escape until its flow should cease, because


The Decrth Cry

Craig Kennedy Story

By Arthur B. Reeve

The name of Craig Kennedy is as well known to readers of detective stories as Sherlock Holmes. But never before have Kennedy’s great deductive powers been employed in a murder mystery so weird and creepy as this unusual novelette.

ONE after another, guests at the Three Pines Hotel are mysteriously murdered, almost under the sheriff’s eyes. In each case a long, wailing, inhuman scream floods the hotel with its gruesome sound at the moment when the murder is committed. Each of the victims has two small holes in his neck through which the jugular vein has been pierced. Vampires! you will say; but you are wrong, for the murders have a perfectly natural explanation. We challenge you to guess the solution to this baffling mystery before the author reveals it to you. You will not want to miss this stirring novelette of uncanny happenings. It will be published complete in the May issue of

WEffiD TALES

on sale May 1st

To avoid missing your copy, clip and mail this coupon today for SPECIAL SUBSCRIPTION OFFER.

WEIRD TALES 840 N. Michif^n Ave.*

Chicaero, 111.

Enclosed And $1.00 for which send me the next five issues of WEIRD TALES to begin with the May issue ($1.75 In Canada). Special offer void unless remittance is accompanied by coupon.

Name — —

Address -

City.......... State -



of the thing that I am — even then I dreamed of tonight.

"When the imprisonment we still shared ceased to matter to mjr father — come on board the deserted boat tomorrow, and see why, if you dare! — still I dreamed on, of tonight!

“I have been lonely, desolate, starving — now the whole world shall be mine! And by your help!”

I asked her, somehow, what she wanted of me, and a madness overcame me so that I hardly heard her reply. Yet somehow, I knew that there was that on the opposite shore of the great river where the pleasure camps were, that she wanted to find. In the madness of my terror, she made me understand and obey her. I must carry her in my arms across the long bridge over the river, deserted in the small hours of the night.

The way back to the city was long tonight— long. She walked behind me, and I turned my eyes neither to right nor left. Only as I passed the tumble-down houses, I saw their reflection in the canal and trembled so that I could have fallen to the ground, at the thoughts of the little child this woman had been accused of slaying there, and at the certainty I felt that she was reading my thoughts.

And now the horror that engulfed me darkened my brain.

I know that we set our feet upon the long, wide bridge that spanned the river. I know the storm broke there, so that I battled for my footing, almost for my life, it seemed, against the pelting deluge. And the horror I had invoked was in my arms, clinging to me, burying its head upon my shoulder. So increasingly dreadful had my pale-faced companion become to me, that I hardly thought of her now as a woman at all — only as a demon of the night.

The tempest raged still as she leaped down out of niy arms on tire other shore.

And again I walked with her against my will, while the trees lashed their branches around me, showing the pale under-sides of their leaves in the vivid frequent flashes that rent the heavens.

On and on we went, branches flying through the air and missing us by a miracle of ill fortune. Such as she and I are not slain by falling branches. The river was a welter of whitecaps, flattened down into strange shapes by the pounding rain. The clouds as we glimpsed them were like devils flying through the sky.

Past dark tent after dark tent we stole, and past a few where lights burned dimly behind their canvas walls. And at last we came to an old quarry. Into its artificial ravine she led me, and up to a crevice in the rock wall.

"Reach in your hand and pull out the loose stone you will feel,” she whispered. "It closes an opening that leads into deep caverns. A human hand must remove that stone — ^your hand must move it!”

Why did I struggle so to disobey her.!* Why did I fail? It was as though \,knew — but my failure was foreordained — I had taken oath!

IF YOU who read have believed that I have set down the truth thus far, the little that is left you will call the ravings of a madman overtaken by his madness. Yet these things happened.

I stretched out my arm, driven by a compulsion I could not resist. At arm’s length in the niche in the rock, I felt something move — ^the loose rock, a long, narrow fragment, much larger than I had expected. Yet it moved easily, seeming to swing on a natural pivot. Outward it swung, toppling toward me — z. moment more and there was a swift rush of the ponderous weight I had loosened. I leaped aside and went down, my forehead graxed by the rock.

For a brief moment 1 must have beea



unconscious, but only for a moment. My head a stabbing agony of pain, unreal lights flashing before my eyes, I yet knew the reality of the storm that beat me down as I struggled to my feet. I knew the reality of the dark, loathsome shapes that passed me in the dark, crawling out of the orifice in the rock and flapping through the wild night, along the way that led to the pleasure camps.

So the caverns I had laid open to the outer world were infested with bats. I had been inside imlit caverns, and had heard there the squeaking of the things, felt and heard the flapping of their wings — but never in all my life before had 1 seen bats as large as men and women!

Sick and dizzy from the blow on my head, and from disgust, I crept along the way they were going. If I touched one of them, I felt that I should die of horror.

Now, at last, the storm abated, and a heavy darkness made the whole world seem like the inside of a tomb.

Where the tents stood in a long row, the number of the monster bats seemed to diminish. It was as though — ^horrible thought! — they were creeping into the tents, with their slumbering occupants.

At last I came to a lighted tent, and paused, crouching so that the dim radiance which shone through the canvas did not touch me in the shadows. And there I waited, but not for long. There was a dark form silhouetted against the tent; a rustle and confusion, and the dark thing was again in silhouette — but with a difference in the quality of the shadow. The dark thing was inside the tent now, its bat wings extending across the entrance through which it had crept.

Fear held me spellbound. And as I looked, the shadow changed again, imperceptibly, so that I could not have told how it changed. But now it was not the shadow of a bat, but of a woman.

"The storm, the storm! I am lost, exCAMERA BARGAINS

BIG Listing Hundreds 17‘Dp’l? BOOK of Super-Values

No matter what you want in cameras or photographic materials £or still or movie pictures, you’ll find them described and illustrated in this great Bargain Book, at amazingly low prices. The finest merchandise on the market, guaranteed to satisfy in every particular, is offered at

Truly Sensational Savings

Also a complete line of Binoculars; other optical goods and Weather Instruments are listed at equally low prices. Write today for this great time and money saving book. It’s Free!

CENTRAL CAMERA CO. ^

Dept. Z4. 2C0 S. Wabash Ave.. Chicago. 111.


Security is the problem of modem civilization. In solving this problem. Qovernmonts are hampered by crlmlnaL powers and public indifference; Rallalona fail because they deal with faith and the immaterial; Scieno* provea inadequate since it is subservient to big business and huge corporations. The only Institution in the world which pledges itself to ameliorate the mental and financial status of its members Is— THE FUTURIST SOCIETY.

Members of the Futurist Society are many years ahead of their time. They know more, earn more, and live more fully than most other groups of people. By Joining them, you follow an advanced trail of evolution. You learn how to solve your money problems. In knowledge, you will surpass the average college graduate. Inatead of a slave, you become a ruler of Uila planet. Write today for information, asking about our Clearing-House ot Knowledge. A charge 25c has been established to eliminate curiosity seekers.

FUTI7BIST 80CIETT

416 FruiJcfort Ave.» Cleveland^ Ohio

LONESOME?

Let me arruige a romantic e<»respondeneo for, you. Find yourself a sweetheart thru Ameiica’a

. foremost select soeial oorrespondenoe club. A frirad-

^'XJlbi....dS7shlp letter society for lonely ladles and 'genUemen. Members everywhere; CONFIDENTIAL rntroduetions letter; efficient, dignified and continuous service. I have made thousands of lonely people bappy^-vdiy not you? Write for FREE sealed particulars. EVAN MOORE P. 0. BOX 888 JACKSONVILLE. FLORIDA

SPANKING

STORIES

LOVINO LASHES. SPANKER REJOICES. REAL SPANKING EXPER. In 2 volames. HAND OF THE MASTER. All finely Illustrated, $2.00 ea. or 8 for 15.00.

Send stamp for illustr. bulletin on (Other books dealing with sexual attraction of the rod. State ago. occupation. ABBFrY PRESS. Dept. T-2,

179 W. Washington, Chicago.

Lonely Hearts — MKET YOUR SWEETHRART through New Jersey's largest correspondence club. Let us introduce you to some nice people, who, like yourself, are lonely. "Many Wealthy." Confidential, continuous service. We have made thousands happy — why not you? Particulars Free. Write today.

FIRESIDE CLUB. WT & 33rd St. Bayonne. N. J,

PERFUME. High quality imported French extract. special offer full ^ oz. bottle 30c. Send post card for list of 12 exquisite odors.


Box 574 Terre Haute, Ind*



hausted! I crept in here, to beg for refuge until the dawn!”

That low, thrilling, sibilant voice — too well I knew it!

Within the tent I heard a murmur of acquiescent voices. At last I began to understand.

I knew the nature of the woman I had carried over the river in my arms, the woman who would not even cross the canal until the water should have ceased utterly to flow. I remembered books I had read — Dracula — other books, and stories. I knew they were true books and stories, now — I knew those horrors existed for me.

I had indeed kept my oath to the creature of darkness — I had brought her to her kind, under her guidance. I had let them loose in hordes upon the pleasure camps. The campers were doomed — and through them, others....

I forgot my fear. I rushed from my hiding-place up to the tent door, and there I screamed and called aloud.

"Don’t take her in — don’t let her stay — nor the others, that have crept into the other tents! Wake all the campers — they will sleep on to their destruaion! Drive out the interlopers — drive them out quickly! They are not human — no, and they are not bats! Do you hear me? — do you understand?”

I was fairly howling, in a voice that was strange to me.

"She is a vampire — they are all vampires. Vampires!”

Inside the tent I heard a new voice.

"What can be the matter with that poor man?” the voice said. It was a woman’s, and gentle.

"Crazy — somebody out of his senses, dear,” a man’s voice answered. "Don’t be frightened.”

And then the voice I knew so well — so well: "I saw a falling rock strike a man on the head in the storm. He staggered away, but I suppose it crazed him.”

I waited for no more. I ran away, madly, through the night and back across the bridge to the city.

Next day — today — I boarded the sunken canal-boat. It is the abode of death — no woman could have lived there — only such an one as she. 'The old man’s corpse was there — ^he must have died long, long ago. The smell of death and decay on the boat was dreadful.

Again, I felt that I understood. Back in those awful houses, she had committed the crime when first she became the thing she is. And he — her father — less sinsteeped, and less accursed, attempted to destroy the evidence of her crime, and fled with her, but died without becoming like her. She had said that one of those two was always on watch — did he indeed divide her vigil on the boat? What more fitting — the dead standing watch with the undead! And no wonder that she would not let me board the craft of death, even to carry her away.

And still I feel the old compulsion. I have been spared her kiss — but for a little while. Yet I will not let the power of my oath draw me back, till I enter the caverns with her and creep forth in the form of a bat to prey upon mankind. Before that can happen, I too will die.

Today in the city I heard that a horde of strange insects or small animals infested the pleasure camps last night. Some said, with horror-bated breath, that they perhaps were rats. None of them was seen; but in the morning nearly every camper had a strange, deep wound in his throat. I almost laughed aloud. They were so horrified at the idea of an army of rats, creeping into the tents and biting the sleeping occupants on their throats! If they had seen what I saw — if they knew that they are doomed to spread corruption—



So my own death will not be enough. Today I bought supplies for blasting. Tonight I will set my train of dynamite, from the hole I made in the cliff where the vampires creep in and out, along the row of tents, as far as the lilt one — then I shall light my fuse. It will be done before the dawn. Tomorrow, the city will mourn its dead and execrate my name.

And then, at last, in the slime beneath the unmoving waters of the canal, I shall find peace! But perhaps it will not be peace — for I shall seek it midway between the old boat with its cargo of death and the row of dismal houses where a little child was done to death when first she became the thing she is. That is my expiation.

Coming soon—

A weird and startling story about Northwest Smith.

THE COLD GRAY GOD By C. L. Moore

•

Hiis is one of the eeriest and strangest stories ever written. Watch for it in Weird Tales.


ADVERTISE. 30 words in 25 magazines $1.00. Three times $1.80. Write out your copy today and mail to:

GOODAIiL ADV. CO.

Box 1692*T San Francisco, Calif.

From a Thousand Fathoms D^ep

The Secret Knowledge

of Q Lost Race

Choked info stillness by the risipg waters were the words of wisdom of a vast forgotten people. Majestic structures once stood where now is naught but the ocean's roar. By what mysterious means did the sur> vivors reach Egypt's shore? What magnificent wisdom did they bring as their heritage?

6efore*<ieath sealed their lips they imparted to te« cret Brotherhoods their knowledge. The Pyramid stands as silent testimony to their greatness. There began the schools of secret wisdom; the traditions of this knowledge have come down the ages as a guide for those who seek happiness and mastery of life. For centuries the Rosicrucians have searched out and per*.petuated this store of fascinating truths.

This Sealed Book Loaned to You

If you are willing to study and apply unusual knowU edge, a Sealed Book will be loaned you without cost, revealing how you may acquire these secret teach* ings. Write to Scribe F. S. B.

\Kosicrucians

‘AMORC*

SAN JOSE. CALIFORNIA.'

NOW YOU CAN HAVE A NEW SKIN IN THREE DAYS' TIME!


— and learn that what was considered impossible before— the remoral of pimples, blackheads, freckles, tan, oily skin, large pores, wrtnkles and other defects In the outer skin — can now be done harmlessly and economically at homo in three days* time In many Instances, as stated by legions of men and women, young and old.

It Is all explained in a new treatise called “BBAUTTFUL NEW SKIN IN 3 DAYS” which is being mailed absolutely free to readers of this maga* zine. So worry no more over your humiliating skin and complexion or signs of aging if your outer skin looks soiled and worn. Simply send your name and address and name the skin blemishes which trouble you most to MARVO BEAUTY LABOBATOBIES, Dept. 324-R, No. 1700 Broadway, New Ywk, N. Y.. and you will receive this new treatise by return mall in plain wrapper, postpaid and absolutely free. If pleased, toll your friends about It.



Enormous savings on Hygienic Sanitary Products of all kinds for men and women. Write today for our FREE illustrated list of GUARANTEED PRODUCTS.

RELIABLE PRODUCTS Dept. 335

604 S. Crawford Are. Chicago, UL

Prostate gland acute or chronic, rheumatism, kidney and bladder sufferers send for free trial package*. amazing results. Endorsed by doctors. PROSTEX COAIPANY, Dept. 03, Miami, Oklahoma

T /^IVTC^T '\7‘ O Write me! I will send you 1 f I m JL J-i X • FREE my latest descriptive

list of clients — interesting mon, charming women — many wealthy. Quick results. Addre.<^.s: CONFIDENTIAL SERVICE ) P. O. Box 04—1877 MUwaokee, Wis*

WE ARE gratified indeed to learn from the editors of two fan magazines— Fantasy Magazine and I'he Fantasy Fan — that they are dedicating their current issues to Weird Tales. These two little magazines serve as mediums in which lovers of fantastic and weird fiction exchange views. The Fantasy Fan is edited by Charles D. Hornig, and Fantasy Magazine (formerly called Science Fiction Digest) is edited by Julius Schwartz. Editor Schwartz informs us that a free copy of Fantasy Magazine will be mailed to any reader of Weird Tales who sends in a post card requesting it. Address your post card to Fantasy Magazine, in care of Weird Tales; and your request will be immediately forwarded to Mr. Schwartz.

A Bathroom Gallery of Art

Alden Moras, of Long Beach, California, writes to the Eyrie: "I wish to commend you on your very interesting magazine. 1 have been reading it for about six years, and have never been bored by it. The outstanding story in all this time was C. L. Moore’s Sbambleau. None of his other tales have equaled this. Please give us more of Doctor de Grandin. His mysticism is interesting, and also true to fact in ancient religions — I have traced some of it back to find out. Please do not discontinue Brundage’s nude covers. They may stir up controversies, but they are beautiful and weird. 1 have made a gallery of them on our bathroom walls.”

Our Fifteen Best Stories

Charles H. Bert, of Philadelphia, writes: "In the February Weird Tales, B. M. Reynolds of North Adams, Massachusetts, wants to know which are the twelve best stories you’ve published. I have made a list of the fifteen best, and answered that question to

my own satisfaction. By best stories, I mean the finest stories in their respective field, including originality of plot, story interest, suspense, aaion, and so forth; in faa, everything that helps to make a masterpiece. They are as follows: the best ghost story was The Ghosts of Steamboat Coulee by Arthur J. Burks (May 1926); the strangest and most outre story, that vivid masterpiece. The Outsider by H. P. Lovecraft (April 1926); the best spider story was Spider-Bite by Robert S. Carr (June 1926); the best werewolf story. The Phantom Farmhouse by Seabury Quinn (Oct. 1923); the best witchcraft story. The Supreme Witch by G. Appleby Terrill (Oa. 1926) — this was recently republished. Your best voodoo story was Black Medicine by Arthur J. Burks (Aug. 1925); the best Aztec sacrifice tale, Teoquitla the Golden by Ramon de las Cuevas (Nov. 1924); the best science-fiction story. When the Green Star Waned by Nictzin Dyalhis (April 1925); the most different story. The Woman of the Wood by A. Merritt (Aug. 1926); the best devil-worship story. The Stranger From Kurdistan by E. Hoffmann Price (July 1925); and the finest oriental story. The Wind that Tramps the World by Frank Owen (April 1925). The best torture story was The Oldest Story in the World by Murray Leinster (Aug. 1925); the finest atavistic tale of ancestral throwback. The Rats in the Walls by H. P. Lovecraft (March 1924); the best vampire story. The Canal by Everil Worrell (Dec. 1927); and the best necrophilic story was The Loved Dead by C. M. Eddy, Jr. (May 1924). The most recent masterpieces are Shambleau, They Called Him Ghost, and The House of the Worm. The best stories in the February issue are, in order of merit. The Fireplace by Whitehead and The Body-Masters by Long,”



A List of Twelve

Henry Hasse, of Indianapolis, writes: "I was glad to see the new interior artists in the February issue. Napoli especially is good.

I hope you continue to use him, but don’t discontinue Rankin, either. B. M. Reynolds made a good suggestion, that of a vote on the twelve best stories to be used as reprints. In submitting my twelve reprint seleaions,

I have chosen no stories this side of 1928; I have chosen only such stories as are of proper length to be reprinted; I have chosen stories that represent a miscellany of themes; in short, I have given much thought to the selection of these twelve stories. Not all of them are my own prime favorites, but each of them is weird, and written with literary polish; no science-fiction stories among them. I submit these twelve choice stories, 1923 to 1928: March 1923: Hark! The Rattle! by Joel Townsley Rogers (the particular style in which this story is written is a delight). April 1923: The Parlor Cemetery by C. E. Howard (humor! WT could do well with a little). April 1923: A Square of Canvas by Anthony Rud (as a study of a madman this story has never been surpassed; tremendous climax). May 1923: Feline by Bruce Grant (a whimsical storiette). January 1924: The Picture in the House by Lovecraft (I have often wondered why you reprinted so many of Lovecraft’s and negleaed this one, which is absolutely the best horror story H. P. L. ever penned). November 1924: The Desert Lich by Frank B. Long, Jr. (why not?). November 1925: Lukundoo by Edward Lucas White (you know tliis one). February 1926: The Kidnaper’s Story by Walter G. Detrick (read this one again before deciding on it). November 1926: The Ode to Pegasus by Maria Moravsky (a dream tale). December 1927: The Canal by Everil Worrell (I think you promised this). March 1928: The Eighth Green Man by G. G. Pendarves (other readers have asked for this). April 1928: The Chafn by H. Warner Munn; and December 1928: The Copper Bowl by George Fielding Eliot (use either one of these as the best torture story). I think the above stories represent everything the readers expea in a weird tale. You are still printing excellent stories. In 1947 I will again send you a list of twelve stories for reprints, and three will be from 1934. (None yet from 193 Vin the single issue I have read). For a

DANCE!

Home Study Courses

tap — NO VKX.TT

DANCES. Beginners Waltz and Foxtrot — $1.00. Also Hesitation, Canter, and Finale Hop WiUtze«; Intermediate, syncopated and Finale Hop Foxtrots. Novelty Ballr«>om dances; Rumba, Tango, Continental. Carioea and La Cucharacha; 60c each. ENTIRE SET (13 dances) for $4.00.

Tap and Novelty Dances

Beg. Tap; Adv. Tap; Soft Shoe; Waltz Clog; Military Tap; Kussian Solo; Gypsy Solo; $1.00 each; 4 for $3.00. Time-step 10c. Send for List

THE KINSELLA ACADF^IT S536 (May St. Cincinnati, Ohio

BOOKS on

(ORPORfiL punisHmenT

Remarkable stories of Whippings inflicted on both •exes, disclosing the strange grip the Rod has had on men and women since the beginning of Time.

f » »

Also many other curious and absorbing voluihei on strange amatory customs coid practices,— >uni^ridged,. pcivotely priided and unusually illustrated.

^ ^

OiXISTRATQ) booklet, hondbomoty prlntad dMOtbtne those volumee in great dolali, sent free in M<ded envelope lo reaponsible adults ooly. Send statop. State aga Posloarda igncK^

THB QARaOYLC PRESS Dept. FC, 70 Fifth Av#., New Verk

^ Qrow Mushrooms la your cellar ^

or shed. Exclusive now process. lUggcr, better, Quickercrops. More money for you 1 Enormous^ new demand. Write for Free Book. Amerieas Mushroom InduttrieSiDept. 1S2, Toronto, Ont.i

WE PURCHASE ATX INDIANHKAD PENNIES Price range 6c— -$85 Send 10c for purchasing catalogue. PHOTOCKNT, 100 Forsyth Street, New York



Photo Finishing

FILMS DEVELOPED, ANY SIZE, 2r>c COIN, Including two enlargements. Century Photo Service, Box 829, LaCrossc, Wisconsin.

EIGHT GUARANTEED PRINTS AND TWO PROfessional double weight enlargements. 25c. Perfect Film Servee, LaOrosso, Wis.

Psychism

KNOW YOUR FUTURE, 34 years medlumship, certified. Send birthdate. Reading and six questions $1. Marie, 4f»l Fayette. Hammond, Indiana.

Songwriters

WRITERS t FORMS, MELODIES. AMAZING offer. Hibbeler, D-156. 2167 North Avers, Chicago.


WEmD TALES

long time I have wondered about W. C. Morrow. You have reprinted four of his stories. Where did they come from.? Morrow didn’t appear originally in WT, and I had never heard of him until I saw these WT reprints. I have been unable to find any more of his stories in the libraries. Has W. C. Morrow written other weird tales? If so, by all means reprint them all, interspersing them with the other reprints.” [The late W. C. Morrow was a Superior Court judge in San Francisco. He wrote many stories, which appeared in The Argonaut and other publications. Some of these were weird stories, but not all of them. A number of his stories were collected into a volume, now out of print, entitled The Ape, the Idiot, and Other People. — ^The Editor.]

Are Our Covers Too Sexy?

Jack Darrow, of Chicago, writes: "Just a word about the covers. First let me repeat so long as the covers are weird I don’t care if the females are clad or unclad. I believe that the cover scenes should be picked because they are weird. In looking bade over Weird Tales for a year and a half I have come to the conclusion that the covers are not picked because they are weird, but because the scene happens to have a nude or a near nude in it. In other words, you are trying to attract new readers with nudes and sexy covers, fooling the buyer into believing that it is an entirely different magazine from what it really is. ('These may be harsh statements, but they are made only after careful research and are meant only as constructive criticism.) This policy will not bring new permanent readers. Only those who are attracted to the covers because they are weird are likely to become new readers.” [Believe it or not, there is not a woman on the cover of this issue, and there will not be one on next month’s cover either. — ^The Editor.]

About Our Poetry

Edmond L. Beaird, of St. Louis, writes: "It seems to me that in the hubbub about interplanetary stories, and nudes on the covers, a lot of literary gems of smaller caliber than the majority of the stories printed by WT are being overlooked. I refer to a classic short story by Mary E. Counselman, The Three Marked Pennies. That was one of the most perfea, enthralling ‘shorts’ it has ever been my good fortune to read, and

scarcely a word about it in the Eyrie! Oh, well, maybe it is just a matter of opinion. And the other thing I have in mind is a poem, the equal of which has not been seen in WT since Clark Ashton Smith’s The Saturnienne. I mean the gripping contribution by Robert Nelson, Sable Revery. I don’t remember ever seeing his name before in WT, but if all his work is like Sable Revery I hope he becomes a regular contributor. Candles, by Dorothy Quick, was another fine piece of verse. It was most unusual— a sordid theme obscured by a veil of exquisite pastel word-painting. Can it be that the readers of WT are unappreciative of such excellence.? I hope not. I hate to imagine I am the only one who enjoyed Nelson’s and Miss Quick’s efforts.”

Mysterious Atmosphere Lost

Paul Brown of Washington, D. C., writes: "I have been a constant reader of Weird Tales for a long time, and I have always enjoyed the fine and unusual stories in it. For the past few issues, however, I have noticed something incomplete in the magazine; and it was not until a few days ago by looking at some back issues that I discovered what was missing. As I turned the pages to the table of contents for July 1928, I noticed a strange and peculiar man and a funny, weird little woman with a monkey on her back standing under the moon. A few more pages and the title. The Witches’ Sabbath, in letters that appeared drawn rather than printed, and underneath a misty, exotic illustration by Hugh Rankin imparted a ‘spooky’ air. ’Then I looked at the February 1935 issue. None of those delightful little touches were there. 'The illustrations were bold, harsh outline, and had none of that vague, intangible feeling of the Rankin drawings; and the titles were stiff, unromantic type. ’The magazine had somehow lost some of the mysterious atmosphere that it once had. 'The stories still retain the same standard of excellence, but I think Weird Tales has somehow lost that little extra touch that puts one in the proper mood for its particular type of literature.”

About Our Artists

Dwight A. Boyce, of Ludlow, Massachusetts, writes: "Congratulations, Weird Tales, on your new illustrator. The facile pen technique of Napoli is a joy to the eye


527,

and is far ahead of the general run of artwork appearing in any other fantasy magazine. The artist who did the drawing for Frank Belknap Long’s story deserves praise too; his work shows a clean clear-cut style that reproduces well. [’This artist is Rodney McCord Ruth, of Chicago. — The Editor.} Incidentally, how about a credit line for your artists? They merit whatever attention they can get. I was somewhat disappointed in Hammond’s illustration for Paul Ernst’s story. Ernst’s description of the monster-god! in the pool was depicted in vivid detail — the i ten-foot curved 'parrot beak’; the great, dead, I expressionless, coldly ferocious disks of eyes; j the two-foot hawsers of gristle that are the | tentacles, the leprous and oily sheen to the sac, twenty feet in diameter. Hammond’s conception, I feel, was rather anemic. And why, for Pete’s sake, did he draw the three men in the nude, when Ernst states that Ticknor, hoping to destroy the monster, 'fumbled swiftly in his pocket, drew out a tiny object, and began anxiously to try to dry it on his dripping coat-sleeve’? And again, after the tussle with the overgrown octopus, 'We took off our tattered, ripped coats, and \ our shoes.’ Hammond draws the human figure well; so perhaps he is not to be censured too much for depiaing nude figures when and where he can, but sometimes the effect is rather ridiculous, v ». Perhaps I am too critical of my fellow artists. But I do demand a reasonable amount of accuracy and atmospheric detail in illustrations.... And while I am in a critical mood, can’t we have some weird covers? This steady diet of seductive females is rather ill-balanced fare. Mrs. Brundage handles color beautifully and has a fine sense of design; her January cover was excellent. But a course in anatomy drawing seems to be indicated, for the Brundage figures are not always well proportioned — too much in one place, and not enough in another, etc. And I heartily agree with the contributor to the Eyrie who wished for a 'sad-looking spook, sitting on the edge of an empty grave’, for a change. While Mrs. Brundage is busy taking her anatomy course, sandwich in a few spooks, ghouls, vampires, exotic monsters and grinning skulls, will you?”

False Prophets?

Ernest M. Smola, of New York City, writes: "Sad story, mates, sad. No raspberry


SMALL ADS WORTH WAXailNG

Back Copies Wanted

WHili PA'V $1 EACH FOK 1933>4-5 WKIKD TALJSS. Charles Bert, 646 North Fifth, Philadelphia, Pa.

Business Opportunities

SFXL BY MAH,: BOOKS, NOVRLTIKS! BARgrains! Big profits! Particulars Free! K. ELFCO, 625 South Dearborn, Chicago.

lliSAl. OPFOKTUNITY. COLLECT $10-$35 DAIl.Y

from your mall. Guaranteed proven plan 26r. Edward Williamson, Box 66-C, Sweetser, Indiana.

Female Help Wanted

LADIES: WB WANT NBEDLEWOKKRRS. Good pay. No canvassing. Stamped envelope brings particulars. ROYAL NOVELTY CO., Portsmouth, Ohio.

Instruction

CUSTOMS, CLRRKS, STKN08. Join CIVIL SERVICE. Good pay, easy work. Get out of the rut. Take our complete course of Instnudion, coaching, examinations. One dollar. Box 2, 24 West 20 Street. New York City.

HYPNOTISM. Learn to liypoioiize in ten easy lessons. Anyone can become a forceful personality, attract opposite sex. Send one dollar for complete instruction. Box 2, 24 West 20 Street. New York City.

Outdoor Work

WANTED — ^NAMES OF (MEN desiring steady outdoor Jobs; $1,700 - $2,400 year; vacaton. Patrol parks; protect game. Write Modern Institute, M-43. Denver, Colo.

Personal

LOVE— IT’S MAGIC! SEEK THE SECRET OF love control? the power to make others love you? Let remarkable system developed in France help you to greater power, more lure. Send 10c for little book that has introduced thousands to greater happiness. Gardin Co., Dept. 3380, Box 352, G. C. A., New York.

LONESOME! Get 150 Descriptions people wishing marriage. Many wealthy. For lOo and Stamp. W. H. Beeson, Box 769, Houston, Texas.

WOULD YOU MABRY IF SUITED? Write me for free descriptions of lonely people wishing marriage. Many wealthy. Box 370, St. Louis, Missouri.

IF YOU WANT AN AFFECTIONATE, ROMANTIC sweetheart with money, write: Mary Lee, Box 446-W, Rolla, Missouri.

LONESOME— BOOK OF PHOTOS AND DESCRIPtions of wealthy members sent free in plain wrapper. The Exchange, AE-3827 Main, Kansas City. Mo.

“BOOK OF FORBIDDEN KNOWLEDGE** Tells All. First time In print. (Adults only.) Price $1.00. Jones & Jones, Chambersburg, Pa.

Photo Finishing

TWO PROFESSIONAL DOUBLE WEIGHT ENlargements and eight guaranteed prints. 26c. Mays Photo Shop. LaCrosse, Wis.

Poems Wanted

WE PLACE ON COMMISSION. POEM PLACED. Springdale, W. Va.



to the editor, owing to the excellent general tenor of WT. However, the Body-Masters tale of your February issue is decidedly out of place — what with insipid glandular behaviorism, absurdly piaured surgery (irreparably slicing off a piece of any gland alleged to funaion to excess), and robots that haven’t got a leg to stand on. Why can’t futuristic writers ascertain man’s true makeup first (a study of theosophy will do in a pinch, as merely one source of information), or else read Francis Bacon’s last manuscript. The New Atlantis — there is a story for you and a prophecy. Meantime, how could you, Mr. Editor, how could you humor false prophets?”

The February Cover Doaor LeRoy C. Bashore, of Lebanon, Pennsylvania, wrires: "How rapidly Weird Tales has taken the lead in its field! 'The February issue is superb, and I enjoyed it immensely. The cover painting is magnificent. It shows up very well, the nudes look as if they were alive. Mrs. Brundage knows her stuff. Her cover paintings are O. K. and should not be objected to. Keep her, by all means. The Web of Living Death, by your great author, Seabury Quinn, was very good.... “Ilie story had both a splendid beginning and a splendid ending. It was well written, and very interesting. ’This story takes first place, in my opinion. The Grisly Horror by

Robert E. Howard was excellent. It had a good background and was very interesting. It held you in suspense all through the story, and ended well.... Murder in the Grave by Edmond Hamilton was something new in stories. It had a very good plot and was very thrilling. ’The second part of Paul Ernst’s scientific story. Rulers of the Future, is a masterpiece, and I can hardly wait until the third and last installment is published. By the way, is Seabury Quinn his right name?” [Yes, Seabury Quinn is the real name of a real person. When Mr. Quinn first wrote magazine stories he used his full name, Seabury Grandin Quinn. It was his middle name that suggested the character of Jules de Grandin to him. Mr. Quinn is a descendant of the first Anglican bishop in the colonies. Bishop Seabury, for whom he was named. — The Editor.]

Your Favorite Story

Readers, what is your favorite story in this issue of Weird Tales? Write a letter to the Eyrie, or fill out the coupon on this page and send it to us. This will help us to know the type of stories that you want to see in the magazine. Your votes for the most popular story in the February issue were divided between The Web of Living Death by Seabury Quinn, and part 2 of Paul Ernst’s weird-scientific story. Rulers of the Future.

MY FAVORITE STORIES IN THE APRIL WEIRD TALES ARE:

Story Remarks

(1)

(2)

(3)

I do not like the foUowing stories:

(1) Why?

(2)

It will help us to know what kind of stories you want in Weird Tales if you will fill out this coupon and mail it to The Eyrie, Weird Tales, 840 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago, III.

r

I Reader’s name and address:

I

j


W T _8


No SOUND came from the black woods, invisible beyond the overhanging bushes.

Balthus no longer heard the drums. They had been silent for hours. He kept blinking, unconsciously trying to see through the deep gloom. The dank nightsmells of the river and the damp forest oppressed him. Somewhere, near by, there was a sound as if a big fish had flopped and splashed the water. Balthus thought it must have leaped so close to the canoe that it had struck the side, for a slight quiver vibrated the craft. The boat’s stern began to swing slightly away from the shore. The man behind him must have let go of the projection he was gripping. Balthus twisted his head to hiss a warning, and could just make out the figure of his companion, a slightly blacker bu'k in the blackness.

The man did not reply. Wondering if he had fallen asleep, Balthus reached out and grasped his shoulder. To his amazement, the man crumpled under his touch and slumped down in the canoe. Twisting his body half about, Balthus groped for him, his heart shooting into his throat. His fumbling fingers slid over the man’s throat — only the youth’s convulsive clenching of his jaws choked back that cry that rose to his lips. His fingers encountered a gaping, oozing wound — his companion’s throat had been cut from ear to ear.

In that instant of horror and panic Balthus started up — and then a muscular arm out of the darkness locked fiercely about his throat, strangling his yell. The canoe rocked wildly. Balthus’ knife was in his hand, though he did not remember jerking it out of his boot, and he stabbed fiercely and blindly. He felt the blade sink deep, and a fiendish yell rang in his ear, a yell that was horribly answered. The darkness seemed to come to life about him. A bestial clamor rose on all sides, and other arms grappled him. Borne under a mass of hurtling bodies the canoe rolled sidewise, but before he went under with it, something cracked against Balthus’ head and the night was briefly illuminated by a blinding burst of fire before it gave way to a blackness where not even stars shone....

This thrilling weird saga of terrific adventures and dark magic will begin in next month’s Weird Tales:


By ROBERT E. HOWARD

— Also—


By Arthur B. Reeve

A sensational weird detective murder-mystery, featuring Craig Kennedy. Never before have Kennedy’s great deductive powers been employed in a murder mystery so weird and creepy as this unusual novelette.


By Clark Ashton Smith

A bizarre fantasy, about a race of vampiric flowers and an alien sorcerer on a far world warmed by three suns.


By Robert H. Leitfred

A breath-taking thrill-tale of the final conflict between the U. S. A. and the teeming hordes of Asia — a tale of the year 2000, of red death high in the air, of destruction raining out of the sky, of crimson ruin fought by super-science.


By Richard H. Hart

A strange tale of the Wandering Jew, and the weird experiences of an American art student who was stranded in Paris.

May Weird Tales... Out May 1

A Mysterious Message from

the Ether!

“To All Mankind:

"I am the dictator of human destiny. Through control of the earth's inter* nal forces I am master of every existing thing. I can blot out all life— destroy the globe itself, it is my intention to abolish all present governments and make myself emperor of the earth.

"Communicate this to the various governments of the earth:

"As a preliminary to the establishment of my sole rule throughout the world, the following demands must be complied with:

"First: All standing armies shall be disbanded, and every implement of warfare, of whatsoever nature, destroyed.

"Second: All war vessels shall be assembled — those of the Atlantic fleets midway between New York and Gibraltar, those of the Pacific fleets midway l;>ntween San Francisco and Honolulu — and sunk.

"Third: One-half of all the monetary gold supply of the world shall be collected and turned over to my agents at places to be announced later.

"Fourth: At noon on the third day after the foregoing demands hove been complied with, all existing governments shall resign and surrender their powers to my agents, who will be on hand to receive them.

"In my next communication I will fix the date for the fulfillment of these demands.

"The alternative is the destruction of the globe.

"KWO"

Who was this mysterious "KWO,” and was his message actually a momentous declaration to the human race, or merely a hoax perpetrated by some person with an over-vivid imagination?

Newspapers and scientific journals began to speculate upon the matter, advancing all manner of theories to account for this strange summons. In Europe, as well as in America, vast throngs of excited people filled the streets in front of the newspaper offices, watching the bulletin boards for further developments. Was this really the beginning of the dissolution of our planetl Read The Moon Terror.

FREE

BOOK

For a limited time, the publishers of WEIRD TALES are giving this book away with each six months’ subscription to the magazine. Simply send $1.50, the regular six months’ subscription price for WEIRD TALES, and this book will be sent to you without further cost.

Address:


Dept. S-57 840 N. Michigan Ave. Chicago, III.

[THE END]
