============================================================
Weird Tales
Volume 17, Number 4
Date: June 1931
============================================================
============================================================
TABLE OF CONTENTS

  1. "The Seeds of Death David H" by Keller
  2. "the superlative of the featured narrative in Weird Tales" by Are we to have no more
  3. "Hill Drums Henry S" by Whitehead
============================================================
============================================================
by Keller
============================================================
that sears my soul the coincidental agonies of Mybaloe, I have begun to envy the death of Marvasi and Mergawe in the pool of crocodiles.

The Seeds of Death

By DAVID H. KELLER

A powerful mystery story of man-eating orchids and a beautiful tiger-woman

who lived in a castle in Spain

THE Duke of Freud was distinctly unhappy. He had spent a year’s income in entertaining one lady who had been so unappreciative that she departed for Paris at the end of the week, leaving the duke absolutely alone in New York. The worst part about the whole affair was his gradually appreciating that she had engaged her passage a week before she vowed eternal devotion to him. Irrespective of anything that he might do, the duke realized that his bankers would make him no further advances for at least another year. The world was indeed dreary. Other ladies would be impossible without more money.

The Spanish ambassador gave a very profuse denial to his telegraphed request for a loan. The hotel where he had luxuriated since his arrival in New York became suspicious and sternly asked for

a settlement in full. Finally, the duke walked out on the sidewalk, a free man, but all of his baggage and much of his jewelry remained in the hotel. For the first time in his life the duke was without visible means of support. The manager of the hotel had promised to let him occupy his room for a few more days, but there were to be no more wonderful meals served there.

The duke visited a three-ball shop and pawned some jewelry that he had managed to conceal from the hotel management. Then he bought some hard bread and several evening papers and returned to his room. For the first time in his life he read over the "Help Wanted” section. This innovation was more successful than he had thought was possible. There was actually an advertisement in Spanish, asking for a personal interview, with prosTHE SEEDS OF DEATH


"Now he seemed little more than a bag of skin and bones, but the room was filled with rustling vines, and a dozen flowers."

pect of interesting service in Spain. A telephone number was given, which was to be used that evening only between the hours of eight and ten. This gave the duke ample cause for reflection as he munched the hard bread and drank icewater.

It was a day of surprizes. It started in the morning with the unexpected desertion of the lady and it ended at nine that evening with a visit from the gentleman who had inserted the advertisement.

James Garey lost no time in giving the reason for the visit.

"I am looking for a man,” he said, "who is not afraid to die.”

"You have found him!” answered the duke, shrugging his shoulders. "In my

present condition I am better off dead than alive. Of course,” he said reflectively, "it all depends on the manner of the death.”

"That is the bad part of it,” the New Yorker said. "I think that death is there waiting, but I am not sure of what form it takes. It is a peculiar story; in fact, it may be that you will find it even stranger than I do, or you may understand it. I had a brother who had everything in life to live for — and he went to Spain — to visit a lady there — and he never came back. Several other men that I have heard of have visited that lady, and they have never come back. The American ambassador to Spain has investigated the matter; in fact, he has personally been to see



the lady, and his report is a most interesting one. She admits that these men have visited her, she even shows where they signed her guest book, and in every case she proves that in a few days they left her castle in their automobiles. She regrets their disappearance; she cries pathetically as she recalls how happy they were when they left and how they promised to visit her again on their return to Spain. The lady is very wealthy, belongs to one of the oldest families in Spain and, thus, there can be no question of robbery. She is said to be well chaperoned, as are all the Spanish ladies, and she made a very favorable impression on the ambassador; so much so that he scouted the idea of foul play.

"I loved my brother, and I believe that he died in that castle. I also think that the other men died there. So I am going to visit her, and I want you to follow me. Four days after I enter that castle I want you to visit the lady, and I want you to find out what happened to my brother. If I am alive, I will help you; if 1 am dead, it may make it easier for you to solve the problem of my brother, for the trail will be fresher. You will, of course, understand that you are likely to die in the same way that these other men have died.”

"I wonder if I know the lady,” the duke mused.

"It may be that you do. Her name is Helen Moyennes. She seems to have some kind of a title, lots of money, and she lives in a very old castle on the mountain top of Andorra.”

"Helen,” replied the duke, "is not a Spanish name.”

"Perhaps not, and, perhaps the only reason she is called a Spanish lady is because she lives in Spain. She is a brunette of uncertain age, and the ambassador, in a personal letter to me, commented on her beauty.”

"I do not know her,” said the duke. "I know a good many beautiful ladies, but not this one. The last one I knew left for Paris this morning with jewels that cost me a year’s income. That is why I answered your message in the newspaper. I will go on this adventure with you. If the lady kills me, she will be the first lady who has done so. I suppose that this ambassador will provide me with letters of introduction, and you will have to get my clothes and jewelry out of pawn; at present, the hotel holds them as security.” "I will get them for you, and for the rest of your time in New York you may stay with me as my guest. I am busy in the daytime, but every night for the next week we will talk over our plans. We will leave for Spain in a week. In the meantime, I will make you an advance of five thousand dollars, and you can go ahead and have as good a time as you want in the daytime. This may be your last visit to New York.”

"You are not very cheerful.”

"I have no reason to be. Frankly, I believe there is a good chance that I shall die in that castle; you may die there; I hope that one of us will clear up the mystery of my brother’s death. Then, there are some more men, like Southward of Atlanta and Serriano of Boston. There is one odd thing about these men that have disappeared, and that is, they were all fine specimens of manhood, and they were all traveling by themselves. For some reason all were in automobiles without chauffeurs. They went to that castle; there seems to be proof that they left the castle — at least that is the statement that the lady and her servants make; and then they simply dropped out of existence. How does it look to you?”

"I do not think they left the castle,” answered the duke.

"Do you think that they are dead?”



"Either dead, prisoners, or so happy that they are willing to shut themselves off from all communication with the world.”

The New Yorker shook his head. "They may be dead, or they may be prisoners, but these men are not staying there voluntarily. There are too many of them — they would be jealous of each other.”

"Not if this Helen were a Messalina, or a Circe.”

"No. She is not that. If she is, she has the ambassador badly fooled. Besides, I know my brother. He was not averse to a love affair with a lady, but he never would allow a rival in the field. If ever there was a jealous man in regard to the ladies, it was my brother. I can imagine him staying in that castle a lifetime with this Helen, but not a minute after he found out that there were other men there. If he is there, he is kept there, either dead or a prisoner.”

"Time will tell about this Helen,” sighed the duke. "You are sure she is beautiful?”

"Absolutely.’*

"That one fact makes the adventure attractive. Suppose you stop at the desk on your way out and rescue my trunks. Tonight I spend here. Tomorrow I come to your abode as your humble guest. A month from now we may dine in Paradise; but tonight I shall rest better if I have on my silken pajamas.”

F or the next week the evenings were spent in planning the Spanish adventure. A hundred suggestions were made, only to be discarded. Finally, they saw what they had dimly seen from the first. James Garey would visit this lady as her house guest. During those four days he would try to solve the mystery of his brother’s disappearance. On the fifth day

the Duke of Freud would arrive at the castle. He would either meet James Garey or he would not. If he did not, then he could take it for granted that the New Yorker had fallen a victim to the same fate that had overcome his brother, the same that had been the undoing of Southward of Atlanta and Serriano of Boston, and other good men. One plan that was suggested was finally adopted. James Garey was to wear a ring with a large stone. This stone had a peculiar property. When rubbed against other stone or wood, it left no mark. When, however, the moist skin, as the palm or finger tips, rested on this place, a red stain appeared on the skin. The two men tried it, and when Garey carefully wrote "Death” on the top of the mahogany table and the duke carefully pressed the palm of his hand on this spot, then the word "Death” appeared in red letters on his hand.

"That works very well,” commented Garey, "and the average person would believe that in this ring we had a very valuable way of communication, but, in reality, I doubt its real worth to us. I could not write messages all over a castle without being seen, and if I only wrote in a few places, you would never know where those places were and would find them only by accident. If we both knew the castle, it would be different. As it is, the best we can do is to presume that there is one special guest room, and if, when you come, you have the good fortune to be placed in the same room that I slept in, you will find a message from me on the wall above the door.”

D uring the next week the duke had to find some occupation for his days, the evenings being spent in apparently useless conferences with his fellow adventurer. The duke was a peculiar com518


bination of globe-trotter, scholar and libertine. Naturally, he drifted in these idle moments to Broadway, and there, on the first day of his new life with Garey, a sharper fleeced him out of a hundred dollars by means of the old familiar shell game. One pea and three walnut shells and "You can see where I put the pea, gentlemen; now back up your confidence in yourself with a small bet.” The duke was interested, and envious. It pained him to think that any one could work a trick like that on him; so he took the sharper into his confidence, showed him several unusual card tricks and offered him another hundred if he would teach him the trick. He saw possibilities in this as a valuable help in times of future financial stringency, and he was confident that such times would come.

He spent several hours with the shell man and then started to practise. Again and again he flipped the pea where he wanted it. For the next six days he practically lived with a pea and three walnut shells in front of him on a table. He practised on the servants in the Garey household and finally was able to deceive even the butler. Then he tried the game on his employer, and that worthy was willing to admit that it was impossible to keep his eye on the pea with any degree of accuracy. By the time the two men sailed for England, the duke was so proficient that he was able to make a considerable sum on the voyage — of course, in a very gentlemanly way.

The plan of action determined on by the two men was as follows: Garey was going to the castle in Andorra via Paris; the duke was to go by way of Barcelona. Their date of departure from London was so timed that the duke would arrive at the castle exactly four days after Garey. After leaving London, the two men were not going to communicate with each

other. According to their program, the schedule seemed fool-proof. As a final protection, a complete statement of the entire plan, with Garey’ s suspicions, and a complete program of the intended investigation, were sent in a sealed envelope to the American ambassador at Madrid, with the request that it be opened and acted on if neither Garey nor the Duke of Freud called at the ambassador’s office before a certain date.

The parting at London was rather dull. Both men were depressed. In the short time that they had been associated with each other they had developed a decided friendship. They were drawn together by a sense of impending danger. The duke became almost melodramatic in his profuse promises to leave no stone unturned to unravel the mystery and, if necessary, to avenge the threatened death of James Garey. So they said good-bye.

S ome weeks later the Duke of Freud slowly drove his Isotta-Fraschini up the winding mountain road that led to the castle in Andorra, occupied by the fair Helen Moyennes. In his pocket he carried a letter of introduction from the American ambassador; on his Fedora a small blue-bird feather shone in the cold clear sunlight, and in his breast his heart beat almost as fast as the slow explosion of his engine — for the path was so steep that even his powerful car was forced to go up on low gear. A little village huddled, as though in fear, at the bottom of this mountain. The duke considered pausing a few minutes to obtain the reaction of these mountain folk to the grand lady who lived, in every way, above them, on the top of the mountain; however, he ended by driving through without a stop.

Accustomed though he was to Spanish architecture, this castle impressed him as being somewhat out of the usual, a castle



so old as to be Uninfluenced by the Moorish occupancy of Spain, a large pile of stone so massive that it towered above the peak, and yet the individual rock was so weatherbeaten and covered with moss and fern that at some turns of the winding road it came into sudden view, not as a castle, but rather as a part of the ageless mountain. There may have been windows in the walls, but these were so narrow and the walls so thick that they showed as lines rather than modern apertures.

The duke had spent a few hours talking with a celebrated Spanish historian about this castle. The opinion given by this antiquarian was that the building was very old. In some respects the architecture was Norman; in other ways the Gothic influence showed; and the best description available included a row of columns that were said to be Roman. It seems that no one had occupied the place for many years, and then this very rich lady, Helen Moyennes, had bought the place and had now lived there for five years. No one that the duke talked to in Madrid seemed to know much about this new owner of the castle. Even the police department had no knowledge of her past and very little of her present. She spent money lavishly and was very prompt in paying her bills. Also, in some way, she had powerful political influence. That was all that the duke found out about her.

Now, he was going up to the castle and, for all he knew, he might never come down again.

All the men that had gone up that road had been well educated; some of them had, by their personal efforts, become rich. There was not one fool among them, and yet, none of them had come back.

What had happened to them? Were they staying there in the castle from choice?

Or were they dead?

He came near the top of the mountain just as the sun was sinking for its long night’s rest. Streaks of light hovered in long neurasthenic fingers on the castle walls, throwing the ancient rocks into every possible shade of syncopating grays. A low wind, moaning upward from the valley, whined miserably around the massive walls. The road came to an abrupt pause before a great gateway with a Gothic arch, its deep shadows showing the wonderful thickness of the walls. The gate was shut. The engine puttered to a pause, and silence hovered over the castle, with the downy wings of twilight teasing the anxious mind to thoughts of depressed mystery.

The duke had, in his youth, received an excellent literary education. Now, lines from the deep well of his subconscious came over his mental threshold — Childe Roland to the dark tower came — fee, fie, fo, fum, I smell the blood of an Englishman — and blew his horn! Without being really aware of what he was doing he looked in back of him to see if there was room to swing his automobile around and start down the hill. There was no one there to see him; apparently his arrival had not been noticed. While he was thinking these thoughts, he saw the great gate divide in the middle and slowly swing open. Apparently he had been seen and the way had been provided for him to drive into the courtyard.

Starting the car, he glided into the courtyard and stopped. A noise made him look backward, and the gate was already closing.

"The lady wants to keep me,” the duke muttered to himself.

And then an old woman came from a little doorway toward the car. In Spanish she asked him to follow her. He



pretended not to understand, and she repeated the request in very good English. The duke shrugged his shoulders, and thought that it was very much like a page out of Perrault’s fairy-tales.

The old dame took him to a bedroom that was a curious combination of the very old and the ultramodern. For instance, a completely furnished bathroom provided every possible convenience to the dusty traveler. A sad-faced valet was in attendance, and the duke’s baggage had bean brought up with him and was being unpacked by the black-clothed servant. The sound of running water assured him that a bath was being drawn. As in a dream, he heard the servant ask if he wished to be shaved or would he prefer to shave himself. It was all perfect.

Half an hour later another sad-faced man entered and asked him if he was ready for supper. It seemed that the Lady Moyennes awaited the duke’s pleasure in the supper room. Somehow it did not seem real to the duke. There was too much regularity to it, too much that he could not understand. It seemed as though he were an actor in a play that went too smoothly — ah! That was it! It had to be well done, because it had been so often done by these servants — how often had that sad-faced valet drawn the bath for some bright-faced, anticipating young man who sought adventure and love in Andorra? Where were those young men now? And would he play the same part in the tragedy that they had played?

He told the butler that he would be ready in a few minutes and took one of his suitcases into the bathroom and closed the door. There was an automatic in that piece of baggage, but when he took it up and looked at it, he found that all of the cartridges had been taken

out. He could not believe that this had happened since he arrived at the castle. Was it possible that a confederate in the hotel in which he had passed last night had made him defenseless? At least, this was the first sign of danger, and was depressingly suggestive. He was glad that he had that dagger in its leather case, strapped to his leg under his trousers. It would not be as useful as a revolver, but in a pinch he could use it to good advantage. At least, it made him feel better to have it strapped on his leg. Going into the bedroom, he told the butler that he was read" to follow him to the supper table.

I N a room that was so small that a charming sense of intimacy was possible, but with so high a ceiling that the candles failed to show any of its detail, the Lady Helen Moyennes awaited the Duke of Freud. The aristocratic Spaniard was well acquainted with the beauty of the feminine world, but even his blase soul was aroused by the superb woman who faced him. He dimly felt that she was tall, but there was a delicacy about her that minimized her height. Her closely fitting decollete ensemble showed a form that was almost massive, and, still, there was but little indication of the tremendous strength that must be associated with such a powerful body. All this and a hundred other thoughts flashed through the duke’s mind as he bent forward to kiss her outstretched hand. Her long fingers, ending in pointed nails, gathered together his varied, fragmentary thoughts into a harmonious whole.

He thought to himself, "This woman is a tiger. All ladies are cats, but this beautiful one is a supercat.”

If Lady Helen had any other thought save that of bored politeness, she did not



show it in her attitude. In a minute they were at the small table, set for two.

"I always have the service set for a guest,” explained the languid woman. "Life here is dull, but now and then, from all over the world, very exceptional people drop in on me; so I am always prepared. Day and night a watchman is on the wall. When an automobile arrives at the gate, he has orders to open it. After it is in the courtyard, there is time enough to learn the business of the occupant with me. Of course, important guests like yourself are always anticipated and prepared for. It is necessary to do this, especially in regard to the food. You realize that most men enjoy good meals, and the habits gastronomical of different nations are so different. You are my first Spanish guest. Is that not odd? Men from England and Italy and even a very wonderful Turk, to say nothing of those charming but rather blunt Americans, have visited me, but never till this evening have I had the pleasure of entertaining a real member of the Spanish nobility. Naturally, when I heard that you were arranging to see me, I wondered what I could do to make this visit one that you would remember — it seemed to me that a man with your sense of beauty needed something more than a heavy supper; so, I thought it would be fitting to make you a little present, even before you taste the grapefruit. Manuel, bring in that silver casket, and place it before the duke.”

A massive jewel case was placed on the snow-white linen cloth.,

"Now, my dear duke,” almost purred Lady Helen, "when I heard that you were on your way to see me, I thought that it would be best to give you jewels — not just ordinary jewels, but some very fine ones that would have a special significance to you; so I arranged to obtain

some in Paris. A very notorious young lady arrived there a few weeks ago, and I obtained some from her that she had brought from New York. You are so fond of jewels, perhaps you may have seen these before? Also, there is a ring.”

The puzzled duke opened the lid of the jewel case and carefully examined

[THE END]

============================================================
by Are we to have no more
============================================================
the individual pieces. It did not take long for him to recognize them as the ones that he had spent a year’s income on. And, at the bottom of the box, a ring. Of course, there are often many rings in the world that look exactly alike, and yet, as the duke looked at it, he was struck at the resemblance to the ring worn by James Garey. But this was no time to betray himself by any outward show either of anxiety or of perplexity. He slowly broke into one of those famous smiles that made him such a charming favorite with the other sex.

"You have conquered me!” he exclaimed. "I never could resist jewels. Courtesy on my part demands that I accept this gift, and I am sure that your sense of pity for a beauty-starved man will make you willing to grant my request and wear these jewels during the rest of my visit. When I take them with me, they will be all the more precious to me because you have worn them, at least, for a little while. This ring, however, I will at once put on and cherish, for there will be hours, as your guest, that convention will deny me the sight of your smile, and, during those lonely hours, the wearing of this ring will comfort me till you again dispel the midnight of my sorrow with the dawn of your fair face.”

"I think that was very nicely said,” replied the Lady Helen. "I am beginning to regret the wasted years during which I never even realized how charming a true Spaniard could be. I feel that



my cosmopolitan tastes have played me false, and in my search for a real man I have been unfortunate enough — and met you only tonight.”

They smiled at each other, and began to eat.

Soon he selected a bracelet and begged for the opportunity of personally placing it on her wrist. In touching her skin he felt a warm, vibrant, tingling thrill that roused the slumbering silences of his masculine ego.

Again she smiled on him, as she said, "For years I have been looking for a real man.”

Lazily leaning toward her he whispered, "I trust that from tonight on you need no longer look.”

"I want a man that will gamble with life — and love.”

"You have found that man.”

"I am in great trouble.”

"I will share it with you.”

The meal finally ended — with the butler discreetly absent, no chaperon in sight, and a close harmony already existent between the tiger woman and the Spaniard, who was already wondering just what the end would be of the game that he was playing. However, he did not wait long, for she suddenly asked him to excuse her. She was tired and felt that he was also fatigued with the events of the day. She promised to see him on the morrow and to confide in him, to tell him her troubles, but, just now — a white arm stretched toward him, a white hand rested on his to receive his nocturnal salutation — and then the butler appeared to escort him to his bedroom.

D ully, he closed the door. He found the valet waiting and told him that there was nothing more for the night. After the servant had left, he locked the door and lit several candles. Carefully,

he examined the plaster on each side of the doorway. It was scratched with the wrinkles of antiquity. He placed his hands first on one place and then another against the wall, and, after each pressing, looked carefully at the palm. Finally, a red mark appeared on the skin. He replaced the palm exactly over that piece of plaster and held it there while he counted thirty. This time a little flag showed on his palm, and it was a red flag. The red flag of danger! The duke laughed, silently. He did not need a red flag to tell him of the danger he was in. Poor old James Garey — he had meant well — but where was he now? A sudden thought came to him. He took the ring on his finger and carefully wrote the word "Danger” on the white plaster. When he had finished, there was no mark visible, but when he pressed against it with his palm, the word appeared in red letters on his moist skin.

There was no mistake. On his finger was the ring that James Garey had worn when he entered the castle. He had worn it long enough to trace the warning flag — perhaps he had tried to leave other messages — but now the ring was on another man’s finger, and where was Garey? How much did this devil of a woman know? She had known about his buying those jewels for the woman in New York, and had been able to anticipate his visit in time to recover those jewels and give them to him. Of course, it was a left-handed gift. She could take them away from him — but that was not what was worrying him. How did she know about the woman who went to Paris? In what way had she found out that he was going to visit her? She must have known that almost before he and Garey left America. Any one could see that the very fact that she gave him Garey’s ring showed that she had a fair



idea of what that ring could be used for.

With a deep sigh, the duke undressed and went to bed. Garey was either dead or alive, according to the whims of this woman. So were all the other young men who had been drawn to this castle by rumors of the wondrous beauty of the owner. "Well,” reflected the Spaniard, "tomorrow will tell the tale. The tigress must have some weak spot. But what in the name of all the holy saints is her reason? What is she? A real woman, or a salamander?”

The morning came, and with it the sad-faced valet, a bath and a very remarkable breakfast, served in the bedroom. Later came a message from the lady. She had heard that the duke could drive a car. Would he object to showing her his ability? The duke did not object, but for the next three hours teased death a thousand times on the steep roads, bordered on one side by high mountains and on the other side by ravines that seemed to have no landing-place. As one thrill followed another, the woman by the duke’s side became enthusiastic.

"You can drive a car!” she purred. "I think you are a real man.”

F inally they returned to the castle.

The lady, pleading indisposition, begged to be excused, but promised to meet the duke at the supper table. There, dressed in an Oriental fantasy of laces and pearls, she appeared more charming than ever. But it was not her beauty, nor yet the excellent food, that impressed the duke; rather it was a flower that she wore on her corsage. This flower, though its stem was blood-red, had white petals, almost dead-white, and thick, as though made of wax. The stamens and pistils were red, but that was not the remarkable thing about them. They were

long and seemed to move caressingly over the white bust of the Lady Helen Moyennes. And when the ends of the red stamens touched her skin, the woman seemed to be pleased.

For a while the duke thought that he was imagining all this — he did not wish to be impolite by looking too long at the flower and at the low-cut gown that it was pinned on. He shivered. It was fastened by a gold snake. Perhaps it would be best for him not to drink any more. Of course, it was just a gold snake, but — damn it! — what made the eyes glitter that way?

The lady noticed his close attention. She laughingly asked, "Do you like my flower?”

"It is beautiful because of its location. May I ask the name?”

"I do not know. I have a few plants growing here. Occasionally one blossoms and then I wear it, though often I prefer the blossom to go to seed. Do you like it? Would you like to see one grow? You may if you stay here. I should like to have you do that. You are a real man. For years I have wanted a real man — one who could make me love him and fear him and shrink under his wild caresses. Some of the men who have visited me have been such gentlemen that they bored me.”

"I think I should like to see the plants,” answered the duke. "And, under certain circumstances, life might be very pleasant here.”

"If once you saw the plants, you would want to stay. You are like all the other men — so jealous! But we have come to the end of the supper. You were so busy watching my orchid that you did not eat much. It is early; let us go to another room and play a game of cards. Do you know any new game of chance?”



The duke thought of his three walnut shells. He excused himself and, guided by the butler, went to his bedroom to get them. On his return, the Lady Helen preceded him to a small room. It is interesting to note that during the days that the duke stayed at the castle he never learned its geography sufficiently to find his way without a guide.

The lady awaited him in a small room, hung with black velvet drapes. The floor was covered with a carpet so thick that the silent footfalls sounded like the ghostly steps of pedestrians long dead. In the center of the room a small card table and two chairs provided ample furniture for a card game. On one side of the table an iron stand provided support for an ash-tray of jade. Even as he was sitting down, the duke saw that this iron was shaped like a dragon, a rather hideous feminine dragon, with red eyes; he wished those eyes did not stare that way.

So, between cigarettes, the two showed each other tricks of cards and walnut shells, and, finally, of very proper, almost sedate, early Victorian love. Lady Helen was fascinated by the shell game. She finally admitted that the duke’s ability was too much for her.

Pleased, he boasted, "The hand is quicker than the eye.”

That night, on returning to the room where his valet awaited him, he quietly shut and barred the door. He kept the servant busy with a few odd tasks while he took off his evening clothes and put on a more comfortable soft-collared shirt and slippers. Then, almost before the valet knew what had happened, the duke had him on the floor with the sharp point of a very business-like dagger pressing against his throat.

"Now, you can get me the ammunition for my gun,” he whispered.

"Your gun is loaded, sir.”

"You are a liar!”

"No. The next morning after you came, she told me to load it.”

The duke carefully searched the man to see that he had no weapons, and then, with the dagger still pressed against his jugular vein, made him walk over and open the traveling-bag. A second’s inspection satisfied him that the man had told the truth. The revolver was loaded. That only served to give the duke one more thing to think about.

He replaced the dagger in his leg sheath, having far more confidence in a gun. Then he told the valet to sit down in front of him. The time had come for a cessation of courtesies, the duke carefully explained to the valet.

"I am satisfied that you know a great deal about this place,” continued the duke. "I am going to speak very slowly, so you will be sure to understand my meaning. I am confident that you have served all the gentlemen who have visited your mistress. Probably the same program is rendered for each of us. Now, you have your choice: you can either tell me all about it or you can have me slit your throat. What about it?”

"I will tell you all I know, sir.”

"You will?”

"Yes, I will tell everything.”

"Why? What is the reason for your eagerness? A good servant would die rather than betray his madam.”

"She told me years ago that whenever this sort of thing happened, I should always tell.”

"So, other men have threatened you?” "Yes, sir! Mr. James Garey bruised me severely.”

"I see. And where is Mr. Garey now?”

He saw a change come into the man’s eyes. He seemed to be looking over the duke’s head. And just then the SpanTHE SEEDS OF DEATH


iard sensed a strange perfume and felt a soft hand on his shoulder as her voice said, "Why not have me tell you?”

He whirled in his chair and faced Helen Moyennes.

She smiled at him, and even in his worried rage he saw that it was a tender, solicitous smile, a pleasant comprehensive smile that should have disarmed his suspicions.

"You are a little like all the other men, Ferdinand, Duke of Freud. I tell you that I am in trouble and that you can help me and, at once, you think the worst things about me that you can and try to corrupt or threaten my servants. Why were you not frank? I gave you jewels. I even offered to share everything with you — for the rest of my life. I am afraid that I love you, Ferdinand.”

The Spaniard looked at her. He felt that she was either speaking the truth or was a wonderful actress.

"I think that I shall call your bluff, Helen Moyennes,” he answered. "If you will tell me the mystery of the missing men and give an explanation that is satisfactory to me, I will accept it as proof of your love, and I think that you are beautiful and lovely enough for me to spend the rest of my life with — and when I love a woman, I usually satisfy her.” "That would suit me. I think that when I tell you my story, you will understand. Of course, the men are dead — at least, most of them — but if they wanted to kill themselves, am I to blame? Come into my private rooms, and let me tell you about it.”

"I will, but this valet goes along.”

"To what purpose? What does he know that I can not tell you?”

"And you are going to tell me everything?”

"Everything.”

T he Spaniard followed the woman into her room. His dagger had been replaced in its leather case, but he held the revolver in his right hand. He was very careful, walking down the long hall; he did not favor a knife-thrust from behind in the dark.

Once in her bedroom, he sat with his back to the wall; no confederate of this tigress was going to get the best of him! From that place of security he noted, for the first time, that since supper time the lady had changed her dress. Now she had on a white lace negligee that gave a general impression of extreme intimacy. In fact, the duke felt that it was intended to impress him — to pity and, perhaps, to other more subtle emotions. The orchid that she had worn at supper was now in a vase on the center table.

"You are so odd, Ferdinand,” began the lady. "Please put that revolver away, or I shall scream. What do you want to do? Shoot me? Of course, you could do that, but how explain matters to my servants or the American ambassador? Do you know him? He certainly is a dear. He came here to investigate me, and I really believe that had he been younger and not so great an official, he would have remained here — longer. At least, he gave me a wonderful recommendation. He sent me a copy of it, and I could see that he was shocked at the way people were talking about me. A lone woman must be very careful. In fact, she must be above suspicion, and when I told the ambassador my story and showed him my guest book, why, the only thing for him to do was to think that these dear boys had accidentally driven their cars over one of our precipices.

"I came here some years ago, and bought this castle. I spent a large sum in making it suitable as a residence for the best kind of people. Of course, I



hoped that now and then I should have company; so I prepared a series of guest chambers. There were any number of old four-poster beds, and I had these put into the new guest rooms and, at last, I began to be known, just a little; people in Paris and Moscow and New York began to whisper about this castle, and finally a man called from Moscow. He was a nervous fellow, always putting things in his mouth. One day we were walking through the forest and we saw some red seeds on the ground, near the skeleton of a horse. They looked exactly like pomegranate seeds. This Russian nobleman put some in his mouth and that night he became unconscious. Of course, I was worried, because I was sure that his friends would think that I had poisoned him. After some weeks of unconsciousness, he died. I went back to the forest and picked up all of the seeds that were scattered around, and I brought them back and planted some, and they would not germinate. The more I worried, the worse I felt, and just when it seemed that I could not bear the suspense any longer, a man by the name of Southward from an American town, called Atlanta, came to see me. He had heard of me in Paris. I was young then, and I thoughtlessly told him about the Russian and asked him to help me unravel the mystery. He was a doctor, this American, and he asked me to let him see the seeds. I showed them to him and he examined them. He cut one open and looked at it through a pocket microscope, and finally he said that it was just a hard seed, and he said that it was like a pomegranate, and that it was not the cause of the Russian’s death, because it would never be dissolved in his stomach — it was too hard; and he thought the man had died of a disease he called uremia. I cried and told him how relieved I was to know all

this, and could he prove it to me — if he could, he would win my everlasting gratitude. What did he do but at once put a seed in his mouth and swallow it! And he became unconscious and died — just like the Russian. And that made two.

"The affair shadowed my life. It made me broody, introspective. I was no longer the gay girl that had come so buoyantly to this castle in search of adventure.

"And then the blossoms came, and of all the things in my life that I have had, those wonderful blossoms were the most precious. You saw me wear one tonight at supper. At present, it is on the table. When I have one, I am a different woman — without one, I am sad, depressed and aged. So now I had two things to live for, one to solve the mystery of the seeds and the other to have a plentiful supply of blossoms.

"James Garey was the first man who acted in the least bit unfriendly. I knew that you were going to come, and I knew that he would accuse me of the death of his brother. Naturally, I was prepared; yet I determined to be honest with him and tell him the whole story. He decided to kill me, but at the last he said he would give me a gambler’s chance. He had the idea that the red seeds had killed his brother. I showed him a bottle full, and, at the same time, allowed him to compare them with real seeds of the pomegranate. He said there was a little difference; so we put a red seed and a pomegranate seed on the card table and cut for the low card. The high card allowed the fortunate one to swallow the pomegranate seed, while the one who cut low was to swallow the seed that he felt was so poisonous. I cut low; so I swallowed the red seed and he took the harmless seed, and in a few hours he was silent in the embrace of the slowly approaching death.



You notice I am still alive? So, something else killed Garey? What?”

The duke smiled. "Perhaps. Or, at the last moment, you switched the seeds on him.”

"No. He was fortunate. He won out in the cards. Do you know, he followed me around as long as he could walk, and, of course, waited to see me become a hopeless cripple, and you should have seen the look of hopeless terror on his face when he found out that he could not walk or talk. He gambled with death and lost.”

"So, one and all, those brave boys are dead?”

"No. Garey is still alive, and one or two others, but the rest are really dead.” "Lady Helen Moyennes. You are a liar! If I thought that you were telling the truth, I would kill you right there. I would fill that lovely body full of bullet holes. But you are trying to deceive me. You are either insane or a great actress. I should not be surprized to have the door open and all these former lovers of yours walk in as the animals did at Circe’s banquet. Such a tale as you tell! For children or fools.”

"I am not a liar. Here is a bottle filled with seeds, and — why, there is one of the flowers!”

"The flowers?” asked the duke. "What in the name of the holy saints has the flower to do with the seed?”

"The seed finally matures the flower and the bloom is what I live for.”

"But — I do not understand?”

"You will when you see the men. Come with me. Suppose we see James Garey first. He will have his eyes open, but he is really unconscious; at least, it is best to think so.”

T he lady led the Spaniard into a guest room. Passing down the hall, he recognized at least one fact, that he

was passing by the door of his own room. Then they entered the next room. Fool that he was! Had Garey been separated by only a wall from help all the time since the duke had arrived? They entered the room, and the duke saw that in practically every detail it was furnished like his own. And Garey was on the bed.

His eyes were open. He was in pajamas, and but lightly covered with a white silk sheet. On his face was a puzzled look. Without looking at the woman by his side, the duke took the sick man’s hand. It was warm. The man was breathing, but the arm, when released, dropped flaccid on the bed.

"Garey! Garey! Don’t you know me?” the duke pleaded.

The soul seemed to answer in Garey’s eyes. The soul, and nothing else.

The duke’s finger nervously touched the trigger of the revolver.

"Don’t shoot me yet,” jeered the tigress. "Wait till you have seen the rest of them. Let us go into the other rooms.”

In the next room another man lay on the bed in the same paralyzed attitude.

The lady said in a low voice, "This is a South American. I was so disgusted with him that, in some way, he swallowed a seed with his salad. He has lost a good many pounds in the last week. If I were not sure of his loss of sensibility, I should think from his expression that he was in pain.”

In the next room the woman paused to turn on the electric lights. "If you look at this man closely, you will see that he also is still alive but not doing very well. See the little green tendrils coming out of his mouth and nose? The root formation has now reached a point at which the plant is able to reach the surface. Naturally there is a profound disturbance of all of the vital organs.

"Let us go into the next room. A



lovely boy, Serriano of Boston, is there. A Greek god he was when he came here, and I would have saved him if I could, but he was so stubborn. Let’s pass through this connecting door. See how thin his face is and shrunken his arms? But the plant is growing rampant. It is sending up its branches over the bedposts and down over the floor. See the little buds? In another two weeks the blossoms will appear. I am sure that Serriano has been dead for some days. I loved that boy, and I am so glad that he did not suffer.

"In this next room is the reason for your being here. Yes, you have guessed it — the brother of Garey. A surprize awaits you. Come through this door. Do you notice this odor? Have you ever had an experience like this? The most wonderful orchid in all the world, my passion flower.”

On the bed in this room was what had once been a man. Now he seemed little more than a bag of skin and bones, but the room was filled with rustling, swaying vines, and a dozen flowers, like those the tigress had worn on her corsage, filled the room with a cloying fragrance that was almost unearthly and unendurable. The Lady Helen took one by the stem and held it near her bosom, and at once the pistils began tenderly to brush the skin.

She laughed. "See? My darlings know me. How glad diey are to have me near! The others are disappointed, jealous. They want to love me, too.”

"So that is Garey’s brother?” the duke asked slowly.

"Yes. He was a fine man. So far, he has produced more blossoms than any I have ever had. But let us see the others. Suppose we skip two or three rooms and go to the last room? That will give you an idea of the end, and I know you will

agree with me that it is not so bad, not so very bad.”

This last room was furnished like the others, but the plant was dead. The thing that had been a man was now dried leather, cracked and broken. Between the cracks could be seen the dead, dried roots that had eaten him, till nothing remained; and these had then died of hunger. On the bedposts, over the floor, the dead leaves lay in dry rot. But the seed pods hung, a plentiful harvest, from the end of many a stem.

"Here we reap the harvest. This is the man from Moscow. Tomorrow I will come with my glass bottle and save every seed and have the room clean and precise for the next visitor.”

"There will be no tomorrow and no more visitors!”

"So, this is the end?”

"Precisely!”

"Then, let me go and gather some of the flowers from Garey — for my funeral.”

They returned to the room where the massive blooms filled the air with the odor of ethereal decay. Gently the lady broke off half a dozen, but, in spite of her care, the torn stems bled and covered her white negligee with blood. She pressed the bouquet to her face, and the duke shuddered as he saw dozens of long twitching stamens caress her cheeks and eyelids.

"Now we will go back to any of your rooms,” commanded the duke, "and you can prepare to join Garey.”

"At least, it will be a pleasure to die at the hands of such a gentleman. I am sure that it will give you a thrill to kill a defenseless woman.”

"It will give me a great joy.”

Still smelling the flowers, she sauntered to the card room.

Seated at one chair, she begged the

W. T.— 6



duke to occupy the other. The card table was between them.

’'So, you are going to kill me?”

"No. On second thought, I am going to tie you up and take you in my car to Madrid, and there I am going to turn you over to the authorities.”

"They will never believe you.”

"They can come and see for themselves.”

"By that time my servants will have all the rooms clean and fresh. Ferdinand, you are a fool. You know you can not make the people in Madrid believe you. You had better kill me here. Of course, you can not get out of the castle alive. Right now a half-dozen guns are pointed at your heart. Why not be a sport? Let’s compromise. You write a letter to the American ambassador that you and James Garey are leaving for Nice and that you know everything is all right here. Then, we will play a game of cards. If I lose, I will take one of my own seeds and you a pomegranate. I have one of those fruits here. I will let you cut it open and satisfy ycurself that there is no fraud. I will call in my men and tell them that if you win, they are to give you safe passage. I understand you are a gambler — let’s try fate. Select your own game.”

"I will do that little thing,” said the duke, smiling, as he reached in his pocket for the three walnut shells. "Let me cut the pomegranate. I want to look at those seeds. Put one of your seeds beside it. God! They are alike. Now, call your men and tell them your orders, and we will begin.”

T he lady clapped her hands, and from behind the velvet curtains stepped six men. She had not lied. She told these six that she and the duke were playing for high stakes, and if she lost they W. T.— 7

were to let the man go free. She called for pen and ink and paper and had the duke write to the American ambassador about the trip to Nice. Then she told the six men that they could leave the room.

"You will learn in eight hours who won,” she told them, "but if this guest wins, let him go free. If I win, we will have you take the letter to Madrid. Now, Ferdinand, explain this new American game.”

"I have here three half walnut shells,” began the duke. "I will use a pomegranate seed. I will give you three chances to tell under which shell I put the seed. Best two out of three wins. If I win, I eat a pomegranate seed, and you one of those seeds of death. If you win, the tables will be reversed. I warn you that the hand is quicker than the eye.”

"I will have some wine brought,” commented the Lady Helen. "We will need something to wash the seeds down. My mouth is dry already. Is it not queer, fantastic, that I can not stand excitement? Feel my hand, how it shakes.”

"I do not care to feel your hand.”

"A few hours ago you said that you loved me.”

"I love you as I do death. Come. Be a sport. Do you understand the rules? Good! Now watch me closely as I wave my hand over the shell. There! It is now under one. Which one? The right end? Wrong. It was in the center. Now again. Watch me. This is your life at stake. Now, which one? The center? Wrong again. It was on the left side. You have lost twice and you pay. Now is the time for my gun. Here is the glass of wine. Take a seed out of that bottle and swallow it. One false move and I blow your brains out. Now I will dig out one of these pomegranate seeds and drink



it down with wine. Now, we each have a seed. I understood you to say that it worked in eight hours? So, we will sit here till morning. If you move, I will kill you anyway. I am not going to leave you till I know that you have started the long road that those brave young fools took. You had a good time, but now your time has come to an end.”

Sighing, the lady put down her glass.

"So, this is the end?” she said. "Well, have you any objection to my playing solitaire? Some men would have liked to hold me in their arms these last eight hours of life, but you are so different, Ferdinand. At times, you seem to be unnecessarily cold. It is better to die than to live a lifetime with you. You would not satisfy.”

She started to play solitaire. Hour after hour she shuffled and dealt. Four hours passed and then five and six. She had not spoken, but the duke noticed that her movements were gradually becoming slower, and at times she swayed in her chair as though she were drunk.

At last, his curiosity overcame him. "Do you feel sick?” he asked.

"I feel very peculiar. I think that soon I shall be unable to play.”

He watched her carefully. Seven and a half hours passed and she just sat there motionless, looking at him with glazed eyes. Sighing and tired, he took his revolver and placed it in his pocket; then, folding his hands on the table, he waited for the end.

He judged that the eight hours were up and started to look at his watch; but his hands stayed folded on the table. He tried to get up, and he just sat there.

Then the woman stretched; like a lazy cat she stretched her long bare arms above her head and yawned.

“It has been a long, tiresome night,

Ferdinand,” she said. "You look sleepy yourself. That was an interesting game you played. Your idea that the hand was* quicker than the eye is right. You never did see me plant those seeds in a pomegranate or palm a harmless seed so that it looked as though I took one from the glass bottle.”

The duke looked at her with smoldering hate, the fire of hell in his eyes, but he was helpless. The virus from the seed of death had already prostrated his nervous system and he was started on the long road that the other brave men had taken.

The tigress clapped her hands, and in walked the butler and the valet. Without a word, they took the duke and carried him to his bed. On that bed he was destined to lie till his body turned to bones, skin and dust. Then the woman clapped her hands again, and, when another servant came, she gave him the letters to the American ambassador, with orders to mail it. Then she went to her bedroom, talking softly to herself.

"I am tired,” she said, “and slightly nauseated. I do not seem to stand excitement as well as I did once. Well. That makes one more fool. I wonder when I can stop. Certainly not so long as I gain such wonderful delight from my darling blossoms.”

The sunlight was streaming through her bedroom windows. Slowly she undressed, and, with her six orchids in her hand, she sank luxuriously into the downy softness of her bed. She placed the blossoms on her shoulders, neck and face and, quivering, shut her eyes.

The flowers awakened, and stretching forth their tremulous pistils and stamens, stroked her skin.

With a convulsive effort she gathered them to her lips and kissed them till she slept.

Black Man and White Witch

By Watson Rawkins

An eery tale of an African slave-ship on ivhich blindness and death held sway

THIS was the third night of drifting for the big, black, naked African savage upon his raft of wreckage. He had as yet spoken nothing save the sea,

the sea-fowl, the sun and stars and moon, but now, in the bright tropic moonshine, the towering brigantine came down upon him, across the plain of silver.




He was a Koromantin, from the unsubdued mountains of the Ashanti Gold Coast. Here, sole survivor he was of those five hundred and eighty stripped human chattels, men and women, with which, stacked below deck like books, the Portuguese slaver Flor de Felicidade — Flower of Happiness — had put out from Whydah Roads of the West African slave marts.

Ere the discharge of the Cuban plantations there should have been, for him and those ignorant all, six weeks of fetid gloom, suffocation and thirst, but an eye plague had spread like fire in a cane village.

She had done it, with her witchcraft: she, the slim white witch, girl-wife of that hated captain — the woman who, hovering near the deck barricades, from aloof had gazed with large, curious eyes, to murmur charms while he and others supped from their pannikins or danced at the bidding of the lash.

Her eyes had often been fixed upon him, Koromantin of the mountains and of a free people who despised the lowland jungle dwellers, and her murmurs had been directed his way; but he had answered look with look, unafraid. In his country he was a headman and a great man. The white witch might do her worst, and he would not bow or cry out. What was her pleasure in saddling them, the already wretched, with her curse?

His fetish proved to be stronger than hers, for the red-eye curse passed him by. But through the slave-deck quarters, dark, smothersome, black with prone figures speaking different tongues, where news carries like news among stable brutes, there were groans burdened with fresh misery, and curses vainly answering curse.

Captain Fezarri had acted promptly. The first black discovered with the dreaded blindness had been thrown overboard along with his shackle-mate, and with

others who had lain near. The next morning a score of culprits were revealed. They went over; and through succeeding days of baffling calms and head winds the drift and wake of the Flower of Happiness were specked with shark fins and with wallowing forms.

The half-drunken ship’s doctor was busy with his own men. There was only the one remedy, expensive but thorough, to be applied to those cattle below, while praying for a stiff breeze which might sweep her slave-hold clean of contagion the Flower of Happiness, dogged by her lading of pestilence, blundered upon her sluggish way like a craft condemned.

The black man as well as the white man, however, had his gods — weak though they seemed to be. The lookout of the Flower of Happiness reported the square-sails of a brig tacking in upon her course. Captain Fezarri, nimble, yellow, barefooted, and knife-scarred in a cheek, took but a squint; then he ordered everything slow and aloft clapped on, for the stranger was a British cruiser.

In the thinned slave-tiers underneath fastened hatch gratings the big Koromantin had known all; he had read the shrieks and the strangled cries, and he missed companions in misery. Now he and his fellows might dully wonder over the new repeated loud commands above, the quick slap of soles, the creak of blocks and the quiver of the straining hull. No food or water was passed down.

All the night and all the day the chase continued, with the cruiser gradually creeping in. His bow-chasers opened, while his colors flew to his main-peak. The shot, at first falling astern, began to splash water upon the helmsman. A ball from a long twenty-four ripped through the bulwarks of the starboard bow — - might as easily have ripped through either main- or fore-mast.



Captain Fezarri saw himself about to be caught with a foul ship. That would never do. Sheering off from a prize court and charge of piracy he ordered the chain cable of the best bower anchor freed of its hawse-hole and stoppered along outside the weather rail; and the blacks to be fetched up.

Up they came, prodded and thwacked, clanking and groaning in their ankle cuffs; up the main-hatch ladder, to tumble, bewildered, into the light of day. There now were scarce one hundred: men, women and children.

The king’s ship appeared to have picked a favoring slant of air, for he gained more rapidly. Captain Fezarri, while overseeing that the blacks were leg-ironed in couples and tied by the wrists to the links of the cable, kept a hopeful eye (somewhat reddened of the conjunctival membrane) upon that squall gathering off the weather beam.

If the squall struck the cruiser first, and the cruiser stood on before it, the Flower of Happiness should be lightened speedily ere she was hove to for search. If the squall gave her an even break with the Britisher he, Captain Fezarri, would hold on, himself, and risk all.

Planted with the others against the forward rail, with his left ankle ironed to the right of a yellow Eboe, his bruised wrists bound, behind him, to the anchor cable, at the end of the line, as happened, the huge Koromantin stood erect. His battered head was high, his gaze was fixed straight before him as though he were reviewing his Africa, long below the horizon; and about him there was something serious, majestic, and implacable.

He had no wife nor child nor country; the first two had been wrested from him and done to death by the white man; from the last he himself had been wrested; and now he had only his hate.

Apparently unseeing, nevertheless he saw. The white witch was upon the deck. Here she came, that creature of evil, who had cast her spells upon them so that they might die. She came forward, slipping, and clinging to the rail opposite. Was it possible that she, too, had the sickness? In white she was, which was no whiter than her white-witch face. With her was another of the hated tormentors.

T he Koromantin gave no sign that he noted them. Perhaps it was this scornful hardihood — the naked soul exposed in a great naked savage; or perhaps it was the twilight gloom of the squall impending amid threat of cannon boom and ball and the flag of Law; or perhaps it was the quick word from the woman’s parted lips \ which impelled the Arab cabin-boy (with eyes grotesquely swollen) to dart into the bows, to clip the Koromantin’s wrist bond with his knife and tuck a file into the thick, astonished fingers.

While the eyes of master and crew, such as could still serve, were turned upon ship and squall over the quarter, stealthily sinking and here shielded by his fellows and a corner of the galley the Koromantin worked like mad upon his ankle shackle. The blind Eboe beside him was too far gone with apathy to care.

The file bit fiercely, like the black man’s fierce spirit; but he was granted little time. Down swooped the squall, charging across the darkened sea with an onrush of Neptune’s cavalry whose hoof-beats stir spume instead of dust, so that the murky line of its advance was clearly defined.

It veered for the cruiser, and the suck of it set the Guineaman’s canvas to flapping; she lost way, while, leaning to the first blast until his yards dipped, with his fore top gallant streaming in ribbons, the cruiser leaped to seize his prize. In a minute he was almost within hailing distance



— aye, the whistle of his bo’s’n could be heard, while his reefers clustered like bees and the teeth of his broadside plainly showed; and the Flower of Happiness hung practically in stays.

"Cut loose!” Captain Fezarri’s command sharply issued, at last. Hatchet in hand a sailor ran for the bows; he brushed past the crouched Koromantin and the hatchet blade fell upon the sea lashings of the large bower anchor.

"Hold!”

See! The fore top gallant yard of the cruiser was down and dragging from his rail — he yawed — he lost way, the squall closed over him and was swinging for the wake of the Flor de Felicidade as she filled with the first of the wind.

"Hold!” That had been for the man with the hatchet. "Hard a-weather!” This, for the man at the helm. "Dius, boys! Well leave him yet!”

Too late, in part. The hatchet had done its work. Down from the cathead dropped the anchor, and with terrible rasp and clangor the cable followed, ripped from stop after stop and in its deadly flight plucking with it black after black like monkeys snared in a forest twitch-up.

The rail was clean in an instant, while yet the Flower of Happiness was jibing upon new course. She whirled like a hare, and was away; and in the welter of the king’s ship, just chopped free of his top gallant wreckage, tore over the spot that his chase had been occupying. But anchor and chain and hapless blacks were fathoms deep — all except the big Koromantin.

That vicious jerk by the anchor which, communicated through the wrist-tethered Eboe, had haled him along bodily, by the ankle shackle, over the bulwarks and into air and sea, snapped the weakened shacklelink, and thrown wide of the bows as the slaver jibed, he was released.

From two fathoms down he rose, half

strangled, but fighting, into the moil of spray and gust; to be near strangled again by the rush of the cruiser, and then, drowning, to clutch, by instinct, at the top gallant flotsam, and take breath and bearings.

He hung fast, waiting and floating. The tropical rain flattened the slight sea kicked up by the squall; squall and rain ushered on the dusk and the clouds broke from the moon and stars. The Koromantin climbed upon his sodden little isle and greedily sucked at the rain cupped in the hollows of the canvas remnants.

Refreshed, he rode all night. In the sunrise doldrums the ocean lay flawless, heaving with long and languid breath like the pulsant rhythm of creation; not a sail emerged, between him and that low and distant bluish line which might be Africa, nor in that other direction which concealed the unknown. He had only the sharks and sea- fowl for company.

This was the latitude of seasonal calms punctuated by hasty squalls. He drifted all the day; managed to eke out an existence during two days and nights, and in the third night the towering brigantine came down upon him, across the silvered plain.

H e crouched amid his raft of wreckage much as he would have crouched in a jungle covert of his Guinea mountain homeland. He preferred death to the slave deck again, but he was rabid for food. When the portentous thing came dipping and swaying and creaking, and suddenly uprearing would contemptuously tread him under, he sprang, he reached with his long arms and grasping the bobstays he clung, for a short space, like a giant ape.

The little jingle that he had made, ceased; the top-hamper raft was shunted aside by his leap and by the wash from



the craft’s cutwater; he swarmed higher and higher, foot by foot, until, chinning himself upon the bowsprit he craned with his fuzzy head and peered into the deck.

That which he sensed appalled him.

The gash through the forward starboard bulwarks had been partially repaired — though only partially; but this sign was not necessary to his enlightenment. He smelt, he perceived, he knew. He was back again upon the slaver Flor de Felicidade, which to him and the like had no name save the African black’s name for Hell.

The deck, white under the moon and changeful with the shadows of sails and cordage as the ship weaved and curtsied with scarce steerage way, was muttersome with figures which, prone or sitting, otherwise might have been asleep. At the far end was the figure of the captain, motionless, holding to the wheel as if listening.

The Koromantin shrank, prepared to drop from his perch. In the bows right before him there rose a sailor, who called about:

"Hello! Ahoy! Listen, everybody! I heard something, dead ahead.”

The murmurings were stilled. The great black sank lower, crouched for retreat. Through the tense interval of faculties alert the captain shouted query, from the wheel; the man in the bows replied, and turning looked full, with jaws moving and hand poised, at the bowsprit and its cowering, shadowed refugee.

But the black did not drop. Instead, he stiffened with nostrils expanded; he hitched higher and wormed onward, all in a fever of desire, down the bowsprit; the sailor was turned again, as though giving ear, but half face or full face counted the same now, with the black — the eyes had been swollen shut, and, besides, the Koromantin was hungry.

From the rail he sprang like a leopard

upon the sailor vaguely questioning of the ankle-iron’s faint jingle, with knee and arm snapped his neck even while bearing him down and had snatched the hunk of meat; crouched, was champing upon it while the alarm of the brief scuffle, the clinking and the fall had pervaded the deck fore and aft.

Men leaped up.

"What’s that?”

"Who’s aboard?” *

"Did you hear?”

"Hello, forward!”

One stumbled against another, and swore; and with an oath the captain’s voice belched powerfully:

"Forward, there! Who’s the watch? Look sharp, men. That sounded like a loose black, wearing an iron. Search along up into the bows, some of you.” And he called, in the Mandingo trade dialect of the Slave Coast: "Who is there?” The Koromantin made no answer. While he greedily devoured the meat he fastened his glowing eyes upon another near enemy, who had scrambled up as though he had been asleep under the rail here, and who was confusedly casting about. The man tripped upon the body; and knelt, and explored with his hands, and shouted:

"Sanchez is dead! Here he is — he’s just been killed! Dius! Look out, all! I’m coming aft.” Wherewith he went creeping and groveling, as though he dodged a blow.

The effect of the words was pleasing to the black giant. The men before him cried out, and ran about, jostling and recoiling and seizing whatever weapons their fingers encountered. They were blind. He stood upright and they did not see him!

The meat had been salty. The thought of water mastered him. He made a step, his ankle shackle jingled, the ship men cried out again, and strained to see. He



tore the neckerchief from the dead white man and muffled the ankle cuff and its dangling link. Then, again, as swiftly and as silently as a leopard he stole to the scuttle-butt chocked at the foot of the mainmast, and throwing caution to the winds dipped with the calabash and avidly gulped.

From the wheel the captain called:

"Who’s drinking? Look sharp, everybody. Down on deck with you!”

And he fired with his pistol. The ball seared the Koromandn’s shoulder. The wanton injury, added to other injuries and to his hate of all these butchers and robbers and particularly of the chief and his whitewitch woman, infuriated him. Straight on over the cabin roof he vaulted, pounced upon the wheel and the startled wretch there, clutched the captain by the two ears and the yellow chops and grinning into the sightless eyes dragged him from his hold, with the strength of madness twirled him high and flung him over the gunwale.

There was only the half-stifled cry from the captain before he whisked overboard, and only the plash of his landing, afterward; but these tokens carried to the crew stunned into immobility by the pistol shot and the instant slap of bare flat soles, and the pantings of savage energy.

"Dius! There goes the captain!”

"Wait! Listen! Hello, captain! Are you aboard, captain?”

The Koromantin, squatting near the wheel, did not reply. From the captain came no reply. Terror, like a cold hand, gripped the brigantine Flower of Happiness. With slat of sail and block, creak of boom and yard, she drifted helmless, while, stock-still or stealthily shifting as though fearing to draw attention, the crew murmured among themselves.

"It must be a black who escaped drowning.”

"Yes, and he can see; he has his eyes.”

"He is aft, where he got the captain. I hear him breathing.”

"Saints protea us! We are dead men!” "Somebody speak to him. Who knows Guinea talk?”

"Ruez has Mandingo. Where is Ruez?” "Here.”

"Go speak that devil black, Ruez. Ask him who he is and what he wants.”

"He’ll kill me.”

"Maybe not, if you speak him civilly.” "Yes,” said another. "Tell him we will feed him, Ruez. He shall have rum. Then if we can only get at the cabin’s medicine chest we can poison him.”

"Promise him pay, in rum, for the use of his eyes so we can make a port or a sail. When we wish we will dottor his rum with the laudanum and tie him up.”

The squatted black saw a sailor coming on, feeling along the rail; and he rose, picked a belaying-pin from the near rail, and waited. He was going to kill all, in due time.

The sailor called in the Mandingo trade jargon: "Brother, hello.”

This was not worth response. As the sailor paused, redly swollen of the eyes, in the moonlight at the farther corner of the cabin, the Koromantin recognized in those distorted features the countenance of the half-caste cabin-boy who had cut his bonds.

"Hello! Who is it? Eboe? Fullah? Mandingo?”

The African growled, with one word: "Koromantin.”

A shudder and a wail swept the waist of the Flower of Happiness.

"Koromantin! Hear you? He is a savage, a pagan! We are dead men.”

The cabin-boy piped again: "What do you want, friend?”

The black gave no answer.

"Food? Drink? You shall have plenty. Who are you? You are the big man? You have eyes?”



Said the Koromantin: "I am death.” The boy retreated.

"He is the big Koromantin. I offered him food and drink, but he means to kill US.

"Could you see him, Ruez?”

"Very little.”

"Maybe enough to shoot him?”

"Oh, no! Not enough yet.”

The white men jabbered: "Then fetch him food and rum. Quick!”

"Promise him we will make him rich. Toll him forward, till we can get the laudanum out of the cabin.”

"Once he is put asleep we can tie him in irons and promise him his freedom, for his eyes. In that way we can make a port.”

"Then he shall be strung up for murdering the captain and Sanchez.”

"Yes; but in the name of God first treat with him. Quick, Ruez! Speak him fair again. Get him forward.”

The Koromantin grimly smiled at the panic. A slight jar of impart registered upon the ship’s counter. He looked over, and he saw a canoe — the small-boat, indeed — floating there with slack tether.

But here again came the boy, from forward, with a dish of food, and set it upon the roof of the cabin. He dipped into the -cask of water and clumsily filled up a tin cup from which wafted the odor of rum.

"Eat and drink, friend,” he called. "You will find,” he said, "plenty more food in that little house up ahead. Pretty soon more rum, too. Eat, drink, sleep, make ready to show us the way to other white people, so that you shall go back home rich.”

T he black, with eyes and nostrils titillated, straightened more erect, to take crafty step. He would eat, drink, and kill — but not kill all these in the night and

by violating his fetish invest his path with ghosts.

He stopped short. Before his very face, up out of the stairway from the cabin she came, the white witch, the captain’s woman, like a spirit: came, emerging silently into the moonlight, in bare feet, in thin white gown, with her hands groping, her countenance upturned to him, and sightless.

He stood transfixed, breathing rapidly while his broad naked chest rose and fell. His fingers spread, his sinews tautened, his veins swelled. Upon the top step she paused, as if questing. She spoke, from parted lips.

"Pedro? Are you here? What happens? I heard a noise.”

Forward, a babble broke afresh.

"It is the senhora!”

"Beware! Senhora! Back! Down! No, no; this way! To us! There is a black!”

She uttered a frightened little cry. She wavered — and the big Koromantin leaped. Lust surged within him as he seized upon her, crushing her in his two arms, lifting her bodily and bearing her to the stern rail.

Her flesh was soft in his grip, her loosened hair brushed his face and all his brute senses thrilled to the gift of her.

Down he flung her, like a lion depositing his spoil. She had gasped, and shivered; she lay lax, disheveled; she had fainted, she was defenseless to his will.

There had been a moment of silence, but the white men roused.

"He has the senhora! At him! To the rescue!”

With loud shouts they wildly shambled up the deck. He vented a tremendous yell, and stamped, and clattered with his pin; and in a frenzy of helplessness they ran about, and blundered, and fought one another. Darting from spot to spot he threatened them until they cowered with their



tongues out, in a fear as though the Flower of Happiness were possessed by a demon.

Having demonstrated over the blind fools he left them to their prayers and curses and returned to his woman. While he stood over her his fingers twitched, clasping and unclasping; his large face worked convulsively — he licked his lips. She, this white-witch girl, whom he did not fear, was his, to do with as he pleased. But he need not hurry. He could picture, and gloat, and plan.

He snapped a rope and bound her wrists behind her; tied her by the slim waist to a stanchion; and settled, with cup and dish, to drink, eat, and wait;

Voices besought: ” Senhora! Are you there, senhora?”

"Mother of God, senhora! Treat with him. Play him kindly. Do not anger him, senhora. It is the big Koromantin — the proud one you noticed. Pretend to be good to him, senhora. Fetch him rum from the cabin. You will put laudanum in it. When he is asleep we will take him and truss him.”

The black, secure upon his quarterdeck, let them gabble. For this brief truce he glowered and deliberated. The right to kill was his, and the lust to kill was his. The white murderers — there they were, at his disposal as if by favor of his fetish. His fingers tightened upon the belayingpin, and in fancy it crushed into those skulls. In fancy, too, he threw them all over into the water — threw them, blind, to join the blind devil captain and the blind and shackled black men and women thrown over before.

And then, the woman! She should go with him, to land (when he knew where land was), for his further pleasure. She should be his jungle toy, until he was done with her. He licked his lips.

The white men had promised him riches; although he was black and they

were white, although he had been a slave and they were free, although he was naked and they were clothed, it should easily be believed that since he had eyes and they did not they would make him rich if he helped them.

It might be supposed that he had that to think upon. But vengeance for what had been visited upon him and his relatives and his kind lay virtually under his feet; and none should tell of it, for the sea, like the jungle, was deep.

The slaver, swinging in the airs and currents, yawing upon erratic course, drifted on through a low haze which like a sheeny halo enclosed but nowhere touched her. The canvas hung damp, every point dangled limply and from spars and beaded rigging the moisture dripped, dripped with the languored slowness of the tropics.

The babblings forward were fitful; the woman lay motionless; quiet doused the spasms of the exhausted brigantine and the black, content, dozed, but with animal senses alert.

W hen he wakened by intuitive warning the moon was red in the horizon and its flooding light had been dulled by the grayish pallor of first daybreak. The deck was somnolent with figures postured inertly as if drugged by the heavy breath of dawn. The woman had not stirred, gently rocked by the Flower of Happiness that heaved to and fro upon the smoothly heaving water.

The air around had cleared, and to the Koromantin’s quick ear was permeated with the booming as of a far, far African drum.

He looked, and he saw, yonder, a white bank — the bank of a fog suspended above the surface of the world; and beneath it a white line frothed and simmered: the line of that surf which boomed forever, like an



endless requiem, upon the bars and beaches and buttress cliffs of Africa.

The fluent fog opened and closed, for intervals of deeper vistas. Upon a broad low point apparently quite near, dark fronds of coco-palms sentineled a dense jungle of darker mangroves massed in illimitable review while the brigantine, impelled by a fateful current, idly drifted past. There were hints of a mighty inward curving coastline; and shattered by a headland in the remotest south the eddying fleecy billows gave errant glimpses of a bay where white-man craft clustered before a sprawling thatch-roofed village.

The time had come. If he showed the people of this ship whereabouts those other white people were they would make him rich. The boy had so said, in feeding him; had promised him more food, and rum. But here they were, his enemies; here was the white- witch woman, his woman; and there was the land. His lips curled.

With pin in hand he slipped forward, noiseless and resolute. He stood poised over the first of the crew, asleep with face in arms and body in shadow; whereupon, as if vaguely moved by the formidable presence the sleeper sighed, and turned, and beneath the raised club the black gazed down upon the blank countenance of the cabin-boy.

The club lingered, and drooped. Again he remembered. Here was one whom he could not strike. Irresolution tugged at him. While he hesitated, the swiftly broadening pink of the African dawn shone upon the top canvas of a ship distant out at sea but standing in as though it brought a breeze.

He yet had time. Abruptly stooping he whipped the knife from the boy’s sash. He ran back to his woman, cut her waist tether and greedily lifted her. She wakened, she writhed, she was as a child in his clutch.

"Who is it?”

"Koromantin.”

She might know, but she should never tell. Her white, soft form was pressed close to his black chest and his blood flowed hotly. His eyes sought the cabin; he started, he faltered.... He felt her heart beating like a frightened bird’s, and through the pounding in his ears he caught her implorations, choked with anguish.

"No, no! Oh, Dius! He did not die, and he would harm me, who set him free. Holy angels, help me! Let me give him the rum!”

With a harsh cry he held her off, and slashed her wrist bond, and roughly dashed her to the deck. In a bound he leaned over the quarter, drew the floating boat underneath him, cut that rope, and hanging from the taffrail, dropped in.

He shoved away; then he uttered a high yell, and he heard again those responsive notes of terror from the white men: the craven bletherings of those white dogs who had murdered his family, friends and fellows and were connived together to lie him into dependence upon their gratitude — even to poison him through the oily words of the boy and the deceit of the woman who once had succored him. Forthwith he called up in fair Portuguese:

"Good-bye. You have on one side land, on other side comes king’s ship. Maybe your fetish save you. You say you make me rich. Now I am rich, for I take my life in trade for your life. Go, you stinking murderers and liars.”


[THE END]

============================================================
by Whitehead
============================================================
Thus dismissing them the big black man, one-time court linguist to the Dahoman king who had sold him, paddled for that African shore where the mangrove jungle grew almost to the very surf.

Hill Drums

By HENRY S. WHITEHEAD

The weird power of a song — how the Blacks of the Danish West Indies harried a British consul-general

WHEN Mr. William Palgrave, British consul-general at St. Thomas, Danish West Indies, stepped out of his fine residence on Denmark Hill, he looked, as one local wit had unkindly remarked, "like an entire procession!” It could not be denied that handsome Mr. Palgrave, diplomat, famed author of travel articles in the leading British magazines, made at all times a vastly imposing appearance, and that of this appearance he was entirely conscious.

One blazing afternoon in May, in the year of Grace, 1873, he came statelily down the steps before his house toward his open carriage, waiting in the roadway below. On the box Claude, his negro coachman, sagged down now under the broiling sun, conversed languidly with one La Touche Penn, a street loafer whose swart skin showed through various rents in a faded, many-times-washed blue dungaree shirt. Seeing the consul-general descending, Claude straightened himself abruptly while La Touche Penn slouched away, the white of an observant, rolled eye on Mr. Palgrave.

As this ne’er-do-well strolled nonchalantly down the hill — the hard soles of a pair of feet which had never known the constriction of shoes making sandpaperlike sounds on the steep roadway — he whistled, softly, a nearly soundless little tune. Claude tightened his reins and the small, grass-fed, somnolent carriagehorses plucked up weary heads, ending their nap in the drowsy air. That was how Mr. Palgrave liked to find his apCopyright, 1930, by Henry S. Whitehead.


pointments — in order; ready for their functions. Mr. Palgrave — so another St. Thomas wit — was not unlike the late General Braddock whose fame is in the American histories; in short, a bureaucratic martinet whose wide travels, soon to bring him greater fame as the distinguished author of Ulysses, had failed signally to modify a native phlegmatic bluntness.

He came down the steps, a resplendent figure of a fine gentleman, dressed with a precise meticulousness in the exact mode of the London fashion, and, glancing after the furtive wastrel now well down the hill road, he caught the whistled tune. As he recognized it he frowned heavily, pursing his lips into a kind of pout which went ill with his appearance of portly, well-nourished grandeur. This accomplished diplomat was fastidious, easily annoyed. Not to put too fine a point upon it, he did not like St. Thomas.

For one thing he disliked feminine names for places, and the capital town in those days was called Charlotte Amalia, after one of Denmark’s queens. It was a coquette of a town, a slender brunette of black eyes and very red lips and cheeks; a Latin brunette of the smoldering, garish type; a brunette who ran to mantillas and coquetteries and very high heels on her glistening slippers.

Various times had Mr. Palgrave in his blunt manner compared to Charlotte’s disadvantage her alleged beauties with the sedate solidity of his last post, Trebizond in Armenia, whence he had come here to the Caribbean. At first these animadverHILL DRUMS


sions of his had been lightly received. Charlotte Amalia was a tolerant lass. This was, perhaps, only a strange variety of British banter! Society had let it go at that; would probably have forgotten all about it. But then the consul-general had made it plain, several times, that he had meant quite literally exactly what he had said. At that Charlotte, though still tolerantly, had been annoyed.

Finally he had been — unconsciously; Charlotte granted that quite definitely — offensive. He had said certain things, used certain terms, which were — inadvisable. The way he used the word "native”, society agreed, was bad diplomacy, to put it mildly. Society continued, because he was a Caucasian and because of his official position, to invite him to its dinners, its routs, its afternoon teas, its swizzel parties. Government House took no notice of his ineptitudes, his comparisons.

The British families, and there were many of these permanently resident in St. Thomas — Chatfields, Talbots, Robertsons, MacDesmonds — were, of course, the backbone of his social relationships. Some of them tried to give him hints when they saw how the wind was veering against him and wishing their own diplomatic representative to be clear of criticism, but these well-intentioned efforts slipped off Mr. Palgrave’s uncompromising broad back like water from a duck’s!

Then he had really put his foot in it. The leading English magazine to which he was a valued contributor brought out an article by him — on Charlotte Amalia. Here the already famous author of travel articles had commented, in cold print, and disparagingly, upon the society of which he was, for the time being, an integral part. He had, too, been so injudicious as to compare Charlotte Amalia with Trebizond, vastly to the advantage of the



Armenian capital. Trebizond, if the man had any sentiment in him, must, at that period, have seemed very attractive in retrospect.

It was chiefly the British West Indians who took in the magazine, but there were a few others. The news of the article spread like wildfire. Extra copies, at Lightbourn’s store, were quickly exhausted. Other copies were ordered. Extant copies were worn dog-eared from frequent readings of that faux pas. It finished Mr. Palgrave in Charlotte Amalia.

A consul-general, and of Great Britain, can hardly be ignored in a comparatively small community. Nevertheless Charlotte Amalia now drew in her perfumed skirts in no unmistakable gesture. There was, of course, nothing overt about this gesture. Charlotte was far too subtle, far too polite and sophisticated after the Continental manner, for anything crude; anything, that is, smacking of the consulgeneral’s own methods! But there was an immediate difference, a delicate, subtle difference, which, as the weeks progressed, was to make its impact upon the consciousness of William Palgrave, through his thick mental epidermis, in a very strange manner indeed.

For it had penetrated elsewhere than to the very outer edges of St. Thomas society. It had got down to Black Quashee himself; down through the various intervening social strata — minor officials, a few professional persons, shopkeepers, artizans — down to Quashee in his tattered shirt; shoeless, carefree Quashee, at the very bottom of Charlotte Amalia’s social scheme.

E arly that spring, at the time when house servants become mysteriously ill and have to be relieved of their duties for a few days, and the Rata drums, Fad’er, Mama, and Boula de Babee, may

be heard to roll and boom nightly from the wooded hills in the island’s interior, and the Trade Winds’ changing direction leaves an almost palpable curtain of sultriness hanging over the hot, dry town on its three hillsides; in those days when the burros’ tongues hang out of dry mouths along dusty roads and the centipedes come into the houses out of the dust, and street dogs slink along blazing sidewalks in the narrow slits of house-shade under the broiling sun of late May-time — - then, as the Black People came trickling back into the town from their three or four-day sojourn in the hills when they make the spring songs — then it was that the Honorable William Palgrave began to be conscious of a vague, partly realized annoyance, an annoyance which seemed to hang in the air all about him....

As he lay on his handsome carved mahogany bedstead during an early-afternoon siesta; as he sat in his cool shaded office before his great desk with its dispatch-boxes in orderly rows; as he dressed for dinner after his late-afternoon bath — taken in the tin tub which he had lugged about the diplomatic world for the past eighteen years — at such times the new annoyance would drift to him in whispers, on the dull wings of the sultry air so hard to breathe for one of his portly habit.

It was a sound-annoyance; a vague, thin, almost imperceptible thing. It was a tune, with certain elusive words; words of which he heard recurrent bits, snatches, snippets, incidental mere light touches of a delicate, withering sarcasm — directed toward him as a child might blow thistledown with faint derisive intent in the direction of somebody who has managed to incur its dislike.

The St. Thomas negroes, so it became borne in upon Mr. Palgrave’ s understanding, had "made a song on” him.



It was a characteristic, quickstep kind of song; something in the nature of a folksong. Of these there are various examples, like the one wherein the more urban St. Thomian makes fun of his Santa Crucian neighbor by alleging that: "De Crucian gyurl don’ wash dey skin,” and which ends on the rollicking chorus: 'Wash yo’self in a sardine-tin!”

In the course of the weeks in which he was obliged to listen to it, Mr. Palgrave came to recognize the tune, and even a few of the words, which, because of almost incessant repetition, had been forced, though with a delicacy that was almost eery, upon his attention. The tune went to the lilt of the small drum — Boula, de babee — somewhat as follows:

.. 7

4-4-4 *

-irVi ■ 1 '

* _z. ".

The words, of which there were many, resolved themselves, so far as his appreciation of them was concerned, into two first lines, and a refrain, thus:

Weelum Palgrave is a Cha-Cha, b’la-hoo!

Him are a koind of a half-a-Jew!

Then the refrain:

Him go back to Trebizond.

There were, in these apparently Mother Goose words, various hidden meanings. "B’la-hoo,” a contraction from "ballyhoo,” is the name of a small, hard-fleshed, surface-water fish, not unlike the flyingfish in consistency, and living, like its winged neighbor, on the surface of deeps. As used in the verses it intensified "ChaCha.” A Cha-Cha — so-called, it is currently believed in St. Thomas, because of the peculiar sneezing nasality with which these French poor-whites enunciate their Norman French — is one of a peculiarly

St. Thomian community, originally emigres from St. Bartholomew’s, now so thoroughly inbred as to look all alike — brave and hardy fishermen who can not swim; West Indian poor-whites of the lowest class, like the Barbadian "redlegs.” A Cha-Cha B’la-hoo means a particularly Cha-Chaish Cha-Cha; an indubitable Cha-Cha. The application of such a term to the consul-general meant that he was of the lowest sort of humanity the St. Thomian negro could name.

Being "half-a-Jew” did not at all mean that Mr. Palgrave partook, as the hearer might easily imagine, of any characteristics believed to inhere in the co-religionists of Moses and Aaron. The phrase had a far deeper — and lower — significance than that. The significant portion of it was that word "half.” That, stated plainly, meant an aspersion upon the legitimacy of Mr. Palgrave’ s birth. It was, that epithet, essentially a "tu quoque” type of insult — you’re another! It referred directly to one of Mr. Palgrave’s mordant aspersions upon the quality of the St. Thomians, or, rather, upon the class, the negroes, which was now retaliating. It was not the usual custom of these negroes to marry. It had not been their custom in Africa. Their Danish overlords did not compel it here. Why should this foreigner, this Bukra of the double-chin, cast his aspersions upon them? How was he concerned? Not at all, was Black Quashee’s obvious reply, according to the logic of the situation. His equally obvious retort, to drum-beats, was:

Him are a koind of a half-a-Jew!

But — the real gist of the retort, compared to which these glancing blows at his self-esteem were mere thrusts of the banderillo, goads — was the refrain:

Him go back to Trebizond.

It was not, precisely, a command. It was still less a statement of accomplished



fact. Mr. Palgrave had not gone back to his esteemed Armenian post; Mr. Palgrave had no intention whatever of applying to Downing Street for a transfer back there. It was — a suggestion.

It was that refrain which La Touche Penn had been whistling as he walked demurely away down the glaring white road under the blazing sunlight. Mr. Palgrave stared angrily after the slouching figure; stared after it, an uncompromising scowl upon his handsome, florid features, until it disappeared abruptly around a sudden turn half-way down the hill. Then he mounted the step of his barouche and settled himself in the exact center of the sun-heated leather cushion, a linen dust-cloth over his knees.

I T was a Tuesday afternoon, and later, at five o’clock, it was Mr. Palgrave' s intention to call at Government House. Governor Arendrup was receiving that afternoon, as he did once a month, but between now and then there was an interval of an hour and a half which the consul-general meant to spend in making duty calls.

Claude, very erect, drove carefully down the hill, turned the sharp corner around which La Touche Penn had disappeared, and thence, by a devious route, descended the slight slope leading to the chief thoroughfare along the sea’s edge. Here he turned to the left, passed that massive structure, the Grand Hotel, driving between it and Emancipation Park, turned once more to the left, and soon the wiry little carriage horses were sweating up one of Charlotte Amalia’s steepest hills. They moved carefully around hairbreadth turns guarded by huge clumps of cacti, and at last emerged near the summit of Government Hill. Claude stopped before the entrance to a massive residence perched atop a still higher rise in the land.

Mr. Palgrave climbed steps to the stone and cement terrace of this house and gave to the expressionless black butler his card for Mrs. Talbot. The servant took his stick and hat and led the way up a flight of stairs to Mrs. Talbot’s drawingroom. As the consul-general mounted behind his ebony guide he became aware of a tap-tapping, a light sound as though made by the fingers of a supple hand on a kitchen pan. The tapping went: "oom — bom, bom; oom — bom, bom; oom — bom, bom,” over and over, monotonously. Accompanying this beat was a light, almost a childish, voice; one of the black maids, probably, in some distant portion of the great house. The tune was the tune La Touche Penn had been whistling as he slouched down the hill. Mr. Palgrave mentally supplied the words:

Weelum Palgrave is a Cha-Cha, b'la-hoo!

Him are a koind of a half-a-Jew —

Him go back to Trebizond!

It was maddening, this sort of thing. It should not be allowed. Here, in Mrs. Talbot’s house! A choleric red disfigured Mr. Palgrave’s handsome face as he walked into the drawing-room. It took him several minutes to reassume his accustomed urbanity....

Something Mrs. Talbot said, too, was annoying.

"I am sure I can not say where I acquired the idea, Mr. Palgrave, but — somehow — it came to me that you were not remaining with us; that you were expecting to go back; to Armenia, was it not?”

"I have no such intention — I assure you.” Mr. Palgrave felt himself suddenly pink in the face. He used his handkerchief. May, in this climate, is very warm. Mrs. Talbot hoped he would not mind the summer heat.

"We find the sea bathing refreshing,” she had vouchsafed....

W. T.— 7



Mr. Palgrave did not outstay the twenty-minute minimum for a duty call. As he descended the broad stairway he heard tile tap-tapping once more, but now die words accompanying it were muted. There was no song. He found himself repeating the doggerel words to the tapping of tiiat damnable pan:

Him go back to Trebizond.

Absurd! He should do nothing of the sort. Only fancy — blackamoors! To suggest such a thing — to him! He descended the steps to the roadway a picture of complacent dignity.

A tiny barefooted black child strolled past, an empty kerosene-tin balanced on her kinky, kerchiefed head. The child, preoccupied with a wilted bougainvillea blossom which she held between her hands, hummed softly, a mere tuneless little murmur, barely audible on the freshening Trade Wind of midafternoon. Mr. Palgrave, his perceptions singularly sensitive this afternoon, caught it, however. His directions for the next call were given to black Claude almost savagely.

PRECISELY at five he mounted the steps of Government House. He was saluted in form by the pair of Danish gendarmes, in their stiff Frederick the Great uniforms, from each side of the doorway. He subscribed his name and titles in tire visitors’ book. He gave up his hat and stick to another saluting gendarme, and mounted the interior stairway to the great drawing-room above.

Here all St. Thomas society congregated monthly at the governor’s reception, and with those who 'tad arrived on time this afternoon the drawing-room was half filled. The Governor’s Band, outside on the east end of the iron gallery whidi tuns along the front of Government House, started up an air. Officers, offiW T— 8

cials, the clergy, the town’s gentry, the other resident consuls, and the ladyfolk of all these, passed solemnly in review before the governor, stiff in his black clothes, shaking hands formally in his box-like frock coat, his spotless white kid gloves.

Mr. Palgrave, still ruffled from his afternoon’s experiences, greeted His Danish Majesty’s representative in this loyal colony with a stiffness quite equal to the governor’s, and passed within. Ladies seated at both ends of a vast mahogany table in the dining-room dispensed coffee and tea. Mounded along the table’s sides stood great silver trays of "spread”, half-sandwiches of white and brown bread covered with cheese, with preserves, with ground meats, with liver- pastel. At the sideboard Santa Cruz rum, made in the colony, French brandy imported from Martinique, and Danish beer in small bottles and served with fine pieces of ice in the glasses, were being rapidly dispensed by liveried negro servants to a crowd which stood eight deep.

From this group a burly figure, that of Captain the Honorable William McMillin, detached itself and accosted Mr. Palgrave. The captain, administrator of Great Fountain Estate over on Santa Cruz, here for the day on some estate business for his kinsmen the Comyns family who all lived in Scotland and for whom he managed their Santa Crucian sugar interests, had been as a freshly commissioned Cornet of Horse, oneof Wellington’s officers more than fifty years before, at Waterloo. The old gentleman invited Mr. Palgrave to a bottle of the Carlsburg beer, and the two Britons, provided wfith this refreshing beverage, sat down to talk together.

In their armchairs the two made a notable appearance, both being largebodied, florid men, and the aged captain



wearing, as was his custom on state occasions, his ancient scarlet military coat. Outside the great open French windows, the band members on the gallery, between pieces, made themselves heard as they arranged their music. Save for the bandmaster, Erasmus Petersen, a Dane, all were negroes. Through the windows came minor musical sounds as a slide was shifted in an alto horn or as little runs and flutings tested the precision of a new tuning. In the midst of this, delicately, almost incidentally, the oboist ran his swart fingers over his silver keys, breathed into his instrument. A rippling, muted little quickstep came through the windows:

Weelum Palgrave is a Cha-cha, b’la-hoo!

Mr. Palgrave suddenly shifted in his armchair. Then he remembered that he could not appear to notice this deliberate slap in the face, and, though suddenly empurpled, he sat quiet. He collected his wits, invited the captain to dinner that evening, and excused himself.

Claude, attentive for once, noted his emergence below, extricated his barouche, reached the steps where the two woodensoldierlike gendarmes were saluting his master.

"Home!” said Mr. Palgrave, acidly, stepping into the carriage.

T hat evening Mr. Palgrave opened his grief to his fellow Briton, as to a person of assured position and integrity, the consul-general’s face quite purple between his vexation and the bottle of sound burgundy he had consumed at dinner.

The captain took his consul-general’s annoyance lightly.

"Man, man!” he expostulated, "ye’re no so clearly accustomed to 'Quashee’ and his ways as mysel’, I do assure you. Why

— there’s a song about me! My fieldhands made it up, years ago. It runs:

Mars’ McMillin la’ fo’ me,

Loike him la’ to Waterloo!

"And it means that I command them — - that is to 'la,’ Mr. Palgrave — the same as I gave commands at Waterloo — there were a-precious few, I do assure you, sir. I was no more than a cornet at the time, my commission not two weeks old.” The captain proceeded to pooh-pooh the Quashee songs as reason for serious annoyance.

But his explanations left Mr. Palgrave cold.

"Your negroes do not— er — insist upon your returning to the Low Countries to fight Waterloo all over again!” was his bitter comment. That suggestion that he return to Trebizond had bitten deep....

He had Trebizond on his mind when he was retiring that night and it is not strange that he went back there where he had spent two profitable years before being assigned to Charlotte Amalia, in his dreams. Somehow, as the strange distortion of the dream-state provides, he was identified with the sage Firdusi, a great hero of Armenian legend, that same Firdusi who had defied a Shah of Persia and refused to compose a history of his life at the imperial command.

Identified with Firdusi, of whom he had heard many tales, Mr. Palgrave suffered imprisonment in his dreams; was, like Firdusi, summoned again and again into the Presence, always with refusal on his lips; always to be sent back to a place of confinement of increasing comfortlessness.

At last Palgrave-Firdusi returned to an empty cell where for days he sat on the earthen floor, refusing to yield, to stultify himself. Then, on a gray morning, his jailer entered leading a blind slobbering negro who sat on the floor opposite him.



For an interminable period he suffered this disagreeable companionship. The Black was dumb as well as blind. He sat there, day after day, night after night, cross-legged on the hard floor.

At last Palgrave-Firdusi could stand it no longer. He howled for his jailer, demanded audience. He was led to the throne room, his resolution dissipated, his one overwhelming desire to acquiesce — yes, yes; he would write — only let him be free of that slobbering horror which mewed to itself with its blank slab of a mouth. He threw himself face down before the throne....

The impact of his prostration awakened him, shivering, in his great mahogany bed. The moonlight of the Caribees poured through the opened jalousies of the airy bedroom high on the hillsides of Charlotte Amalia; and through the open windows came eerily — it was three o’clock in the morning — the very ghost of a little lilting refrain in the cracked voice of some aged man:

Him go back — to Trebizond,

Mr. Palgrave groaned, rolled over in bed so that his better ear was undermost, sought to woo sleep again.

But now it was impossible to sleep. That tune — that devilish, that damnable tune — was running through his head again, tumultuously, to the small-drum throbbing of his heart. He groaned and tossed impatiently, miserably. Would morning never come?

I N A gray dawn Mr. Palgrave rose from an unrefreshing bed, tubbed himself half-heartedly. His face, as he looked at it in his shaving-mirror, wielding his Wednesday Wade & Butcher, seemed gray and drawn; there was no color in his usually choleric cheeks. The servants, at this hour, would not have arrived. There would be no morning tea ready.

At a little before seven, fully dressed, Mr. Palgrave descended the staircase to his office below. He sat down at his order-. ly desk, listening to the shuffle of earlymorning bare feet outside there on the earthen hillside roadway before his fine house; to the clipped, grave snatches of the creole speech of the Blacks; to the occasional guffaws of the negroes about their early -morning occasions; gravely erect; carrying trays, fruits, great tins of cisternwater, atop kerchiefed heads.

Mechanically he reached for his writing-materials, dipped a pen in an inkwell, commenced to write. He wrote on and on, composing carefully, the edge of his mind engaged in listening for the song out there on the roadway. He discovered that he was tapping out its cadence with his foot on the scrubbed pitch-pine flooring underneath his desk: oom — bom, bom; oom — bom, bom; oom — bom, bom; oom — bom, bom!

He finished his letter, signed it meticulously, blotted it, folded it twice, then heard the latch of the remote kitchen door snap. He rose, walked into the diningroom, and spoke through the inner kitchen door to Melissa his cook who had just arrived:

"Make me some tea, at once, if you please.”

"Yes, sar.” It was the dutiful, monotonous, unhurried voice of old Black Melissa as she motivated herself ponderously in the direction of the charcoal barrel in the kitchen’s corner.

Mr. Palgrave reflectively mounted the stairs to his bedroom. He was putting a keen edge on his Wednesday razor — he used a set of seven — before it dawned upon him that he had already shaved! He returned the razor to its case. What could be the matter with him? He looked musingly into his shaving-mirror, passed a well-kept hand reflectively over the



smooth cheeks into which the exercise of moving about and up and down the stairs had driven a little of his accustomed high color. He shook his head at his reflection in the glass, walked out into the upper hallway, redescended the stairs, once more entered his office.

What was this?

He frowned, stared, picked up from the desk the letter he had finished ten minutes before, examined it carefully. It was, unquestionably, in his own handwriting. The ink was barely dry. He laid it back in its place on the desk and began to pace the room, slowly, listening to Melissa’s slow movings-about in the kitchen, to the arrival of other servants. He could hear their clipped greetings to the old cook.

Wondering at himself, at this strange mental world where he found himself, he seated himself firmly, judicially, in his ample desk chair, picked up the letter, read it through again with an ever-increasing wonderment. He laid it down, his thoughts turning, strangely, to Trebizond.

And Mr. Palgrave could not, for the life of him, recall writing this letter.

He was still sitting there, staring blankly at nothing, his brows drawn together in a deep frown, when Claude came in to announce tea prepared in the diningroom. ’’Tea,” in St. Thomas, Continental fashion, is the name of the morning meal. “Breakfast” comes at one o’clock. Mr. Palgrave’s cook had prepared amply that morning, but not bacon and eggs, nor even Scotch marmalade, availed to arouse him from his strange preoccupation.

After "tea” he sat again at his desk alone until ten o’clock, when his privacy was invaded by two sailors from a British vessel in the harbor, with consular business to transact. He gave these men his careful attention; later, his advice. He walked out with them an hour later, turned

up the hill and strolled about the steep hillside streets for an hour.

It was nearly high noon when he returned. He passed the office, going upstairs to refresh his appearance after his walk. It was blistering hot outdoors under the May noon sunlight drenching the dusty roadways.

When he went into his office half an hour later he saw the letter once more. It was enclosed now, in an official envelope, addressed, too, in his own unmistakable handwriting, duly stamped for posting. Again, he had no slightest recollection of having done any of these things. He picked up the letter intending now to tear it across and then across again and fling the bits of paper into the waste-basket. Instead he sat with it in his hands, curiously placid, in an apathetic state in which he seemed not even to think. He ended by placing it in his coat pocket and was immediately afterward summoned to the one o’clock "breakfast” in the dining-room.

W hen he awakened from his siesta that afternoon it was near four o’clock. He remembered the letter at once. He rose, and before his afternoon bath examined the coat pocket. The letter was not in the pocket. He decided to look for it on the desk later.

In half an hour, fresh and cool now after his bath, he descended the stairway and went straight into his office. The letter was on his mind, and, frowning slightly, he stepped toward the immaculately neat desk. He drew down his lip under his teeth in a puzzled expression. The letter was not on the desk.

The arrival of callers summoned him into the drawing-room. He did not give any thought to the letter again until dinner-time and then he was at the top of Government Hill at one of the British



houses and could only postpone his desire to find and destroy it.

The letter failed to turn up, and the next day came and passed, and the next after it, and the days stretched into weeks. He had almost forgotten the letter. It cropped up mentally now and then as a vague, half -remembered annoyance.

Things were going better these days. The song and its varied accompaniments of drum-tapping, whistling, humming of the nearly soundless tune, the encompassing annoyance it had caused him — all these things seemed to have dropped out of the hearing, and consequently out of the mind of the consul-general. He felt, as he half realized, somewhat more at home now in Charlotte Amalia. Everybody, it appeared, was perfectly courteous to him. The atmosphere of vague hostility which had vaguely adumbrated his surroundings was gone, utterly dissipated. The charm of the town had begun to appeal to this sophisticated traveler of the earth’s surfaces.

Then one morning among the letters which the Royal Mail steamer Hyperion had brought into the harbor the night before he discerned an official communication from his superiors in London.

He opened it before any of his other letters, as was natural....

The Under-Secretary had written granting his urgent request to be sent back to Trebizond. He was requested to take immediate passage to any convenient Mediterranean port and to proceed thence direct to the Armenian capital. It was, at the moment, agreeable to the consular service that he should be there. Suggestions followed in the letter’s text, designating various policies to be pursued.

He finished the many sheets of thin onion-skin paper, folded the letter and laid it on the desk, and sat, staring dully at his inkwell. He did not want to go back to Trebizond. He wanted to remain

here. But — he had no choice in the matter. He cudgeled his brains warily. He recalled his singular apathy at the time when his letter — written, it seemed, as though subconsciously — had disappeared. He had not wanted, to write that letter. He recalled that there had been confusion in his mind at the time — he could not, he recalled, remember the actual writing, nor sending it after it was written. There was something very strange here, something — unusual! Indubitably he had applied for transfer to Trebizond. To Trebizond he was ordered to go!

Charlotte Amalia, that coy Latinbrunette of a town with her coquetteries and her too-garish coloring, and her delicate beauties — Charlotte Amalia had schemed for his departure, forced his hand, driven him out. He sat there, at his desk, thinking, ruefully, of many things. Then his pride came to his rescue. He remembered the slights which had been put upon him, those intangible slights — the almost formless little tune with its absurd, gibberish words; the tapping of pans; the rattle and boom of the hill drums, those detestable night drums on which these stupid-looking, subtle blackamoors were always and forever, and compellingly, tapping, tapping, tapping.

And before very long Mr. Palgrave, who did not believe in magic and who pooh-poohed anything labeled "eery” or "occult” as absurd; who believed only in unmistakable matters like sound beef and County Families and exercise and the integrity of the British Empire and the invariable inferiority of foreigners — Mr. Palgrave came to see that in some fashion not accounted for in his philosophy Charlotte Amalia had played him a very scurvy trick — somehow.

Bestirring himself he began to examine the inventory which he kept of his household gear; many belongings without



which no British gentleman could be expected to exist. He indited to the harbor-master a cold, polite note, requesting notice of the arrival of vessels clearing for Mediterranean ports or ports on the Black Sea — Odessa for choice — and he began to formulate, in his small, precise handwriting, the list of duty-calls which must be made before his departure. In the pauses between these labors he wrote various polite, stiff notes, and in the very midst of such activities Claude summoned him to midday breakfast.

Leading the way to the dining-room after this announcement, Claude paused at the office doorway, turned a deprecating face to his employer.

"Yes?” said Mr. Palgrave, perceiving that Claude wished to address him.

"Yo’ is leave us, sar,” said Claude, with courteous absence of any inflection or emphasis on his words which would indicate that he was asking a question.

"Yes — I am leaving very shortly,” replied Mr. Palgrave unemotionally. He added nothing to this statement. He was a stiff master to his servants, just but distant. Servants had their place and must be kept in it, according to Mr. Palgrave’ s scheme of life.

That night, his sleep being rather fitful, Mr. Palgrave noted that the drums were reiterating some message, insistently, up in the hills....

Neither Claude, who as coachmanbutler had the closest contact with his employer of any of the house servants, nor, indeed, old Melissa nor any of the others, made any further remark to their employer concerning his departure. This took place three days, later, on a Netherlands vessel clearing for Genoa; and Mr. Palgrave was probably the very last person in St. Thomas who would have asked any personal question of a servant.

Yet he wondered, when it occurred to him — and that was often — just how Claude had known he was leaving....

The Blood Veins of the Robot

By L. HARPER ALLEN

A grim story of a miser ivhose mechanical man was fed by a stream of golden coins

ARAM MANDRAGA was wizened, withered and old when he came "*■ alone from Armenia and settled down in a little shop just off Sutton Place. The place was dingy and dark, but stocked with rugs, pile upon pile, precious weaves of Ispahan, Tabriz, Aragh, Kashan, Hamadan, Kerman, Sarouk. To the fastidious few it soon became known; discriminating buyers, experienced dealers and decorators — and Aram Mandraga prospered.

Aram Mandraga had a god. Also, he revelled in a certain form of music, a



never-failing symphony which solaced his soul. His god was money — his music the metallic clink of minted coins.

Always, as he walked, Mandraga would thrust his hands into his pockets and run his trembling fingers among the

many coins he carried. It was joy to his spirit to hear them clink together. His eyes would brighten, his step would quicken and over his seared face would creep a smile, but it was a smile that chilled — the smile of a miser. He never



did this within the hearing of any one but himself. Mandraga was selfish of his music, and besides, it was pleasant to him to appear to be poor — it seemed to aid him in his business and afforded him, no doubt, protection against robbery and against prying eyes.

The covering was worn from the buttons on his coat; the cloth upon his elbows was thin and polished with long service. He feigned poverty so assiduously that he scarcely bought food sufficient to sustain him, and therefore he sometimes went hungry. Strangers who passed him on the street often thought of him as a beggar, and that pleased him considerably, for if the world believed him poor the world would not rob him. An odd character was Aram Mandraga!

If one had been sufficiently interested to have investigated, he would have been exceedingly surprized to discover that Aram Mandraga had purchased the property in which he dwelt and carried on his business. A mortgage had been foreclosed. The two-storied brick house on the little side street had been put up for sale. It had gone for a song. And some material part of Mandraga’s accumulated wealth had provided the music.

The building was not large. It was certainly not beautiful. But it was strong — the walls were thick — and that sufficed. Into this house Mandraga had moved his stacks of rugs and a quantity of old furnishings. In the upper part he lived, behind closed shutters, its sole tenant.

When the nights were dark he would see that the shutters were fastened most securely, bolt the doors below stairs and above with the heavy bars with which every opening had been provided, and by the light of a sputtering candle unlock certain chests which were hidden about the quarters and filter through his trembling fingers the gold and silver

coins that filled them. And his heart would pound in unwonted rhythm to their music.

Satisfied, Mandraga would then relock the chests, push them back under his bed or into their accustomed places, tie the small keys about his neck, blow out the candle and creep into bed, where the blended echoes of gold and silver would lull him to sleep. When there was a moon, he would open one of the shutters slightly. Enough light would filter through the iron bars with which the windows were additionally protected to make. the candle an expensive luxury. Moonlight cost him nothing.

One by one the rugs on the floor below were disappearing; the stacks were growing smaller, the precious stock which he had moved into his dingy shop was becoming depleted. Expensive rugs they were, too; antiques, many of them, which he had disposed of at figures which ran into the thousands. Only Mandraga and the expert buyers knew their value — and Mandraga got their price. Checks, drafts, yellow bank-notes, bills, all these Mandraga quickly translated into metal coins — quarters, half-dollars, gold pieces of every denomination. The more money and the greater variety in sizes and apparent tone, the merrier the music. These coins were his slaves. He owned them, body and soul. They were the blood of his very life.

"Slaves!” he considered. "I have given my life for them! Now they are mine; they give their lives to me!”

He ruminated. Rugs! They had not been his slaves. They had but provided him with a means to obtain his end, to enthrall the hundreds of thousands of silver and golden slaves which were now imprisoned in the many chests. To others there was something indefinable in the mystic carpets of the East, romance^;



dreams, perhaps, in their subdued coloring which had withstood the ravages of the centuries. To Mandraga they were drab, colorless — but worth their weight in silver and gold coins. They consumed nothing; as they aged, they grew more valuable. Slaves, human slaves, had required feeding. With age their value had decreased. And then — there was sickness — and loss. He had chosen well.

Years ago, he remembered, there were profits to be made in the traffic of slaves. In Armenia, Syria, Turkey, Persia, men had become rich in that business. They had made money that might just as well have been his. But he had chosen rugs! The buying and selling of slaves had a risk that terrified him. They were illtreated and ill-fed; many of them were old and one or more might die on his hands. The loss of their lives was nothing, but — the loss of profits! If only he could have bought their souls. Souls never die, he had heard somewhere.

"My little slaves make music,” he pondered. "But I want greater music — more regular music. Only at night I hear their voices; for more than twenty hours they are silent, hidden in the chests.”

Could he but contrive some apparatus that would keep them playing their magic chords — their sweet symphony — forever? Could he find a way to listen to their continuous jingling day and night without cessation? Perhaps! Some mechanical contrivance could be fashioned which would accomplish this. He would build one, an automaton of some sort in which his silver and golden coins would course through slots in regular order, dropping one after another — now a gold piece against a silver coin; now two small silver coins against a deep-toned double eagle. What combinations he could provide for • — the many different notes of the scale he could arrange to please his fancy! And

the coins could roll along through these innumerable slots like blood in the veins of a man. That was it! Veins with gold and silver blood! It must be continuous — never-stopping — like a radio receiving set in constant synchronization with a never-silent broadcasting station. Aram Mandraga’s eyes glittered with uncontrolled joy. He would be master of this never-ending bloodstream. Each coin would sing again and again its sweetest note. It would pass on through the mechanism of the machine — Mandraga’s mechanical Golem — the monster concrete Robot he would build — and he would so contrive that each coin, after it fell, would again be lifted up by some mechanical device which he would construct, to take its place once more in the metal stream at the top. Continuous music! It might be made to go on — on — on — night and day!

W eeks went by. Only a few rugs remained from the great store with which Mandraga had stocked his dingy shop. Another chest was now filled with metal coins. The music each night grew the sweeter and the more mellow as his horde increased. He was growing old, he reasoned now. Creeping age would soon enfeeble him. It took considerable exertion at times to drag the chests from beneath the bed and from under the window-seats which he had constructed to hide them from evil-intentioned eyes. A little while now, and he could sit idly by and listen to the musical clinking of the coins. He had been pondering over that idea of his — money making its own music; a constant, methodical jingling and blending of those wondrous voices. A plan had gradually formed itself in his mind. Materials had been accumulated. Hundreds of pieces of curved metal tubing, fiber-lined — long, short,



medium lengths — of many different sizes, had been cut to Mandraga’s designs. These, with strangely contrived liftingdevices on endless chains, gears and other paraphernalia, were collected in the rear of the little shop downstairs where the rugs had once been stacked. Less than a dozen pieces of his once prized stock now remained. The rugs were vanishing, but the many chests were full.

Sacks of cement, piles of stone and sand, several sheets of perforated steel. Aram Mandraga’s plans were at last complete. It had cost him many of his little blood-slaves to fashion the thing of concrete and metal which he had designed in his mind’s eye — but he had made his resolve; his mechanical Robot was ready to be assembled. And then, music — never to be stopped — unless he so willed. The coins, his slaves! Constant-rushing blood through the metal and fiber veins of his automaton! Tingling music — always that music! The concrete Robot with the face and form of a gigantic man — his Slave. With the blood he would feed it, it would tingle with ever-pulsing life. The pressure of his finger, and the life would depart from its veins — and his music would likewise stop. But Mandraga’s fingers would again start the brave music. Jingle, tinkle, all the thousand variations in tone would once more be resumed! His man of stone would live! Thousands of little slaves within the monster Slave — the little finger of Aram Mandraga to control them.

Rugs! Romance of the looms! Magic carpets of the East! Bah! They had been lifeless things. Only a means to the end. Money only mattered. Coins — hard,

metallic silver and gold coins — they were his god. Their friendly voices, his sublime orchestra. And now — tap, tap, tap — • their music might go on in continuous rhythm*

A few days passed. But one rug remained in the little dingy shop — a faded brown prayer rug from Kashan. Aram Mandraga took this to his living-quarters above. There would be more room in the shop below in which to mix the cement, when the workmen came.

T he next day and for many days thereafter, workmen were busy in the Mandraga house. Aram followed them about and directed. He moved his belongings into the front part of tire upper floor. First, they walled in all the windows on the lower floor. Then the low ceiling in the rear half of the erstwhile shop was torn out, a solid dividing-wall built across the room, stairs constructed which led down to this squared room from the floor above.

When they had finished, the result of their labors stood in the center of the high, two-storied room. It was massively built, from the solid ground beneath the floor to the height of eighteen feet. Its general outlines were those of a man — but Mandraga had overlooked nothing — ■ the finishing touches would be put on by his own hand. Plaster and cement had been prepared. He would mold the features into the semblance which he had designed. To the workmen, it had appeared only a machine of some sort which they were constructing. Mandraga would fashion its huge proportions in secret. He would color it in black and white; it would have thick red lips and a yellow face. Its eyes would move; its tongue would push in and out; its ears, as large almost as those of a young elephant, would twitch. It would show life — as long as the stream of the little coins flowed on through its metal veins.

Its walls were several inches thick, leaving an interior at its base nearly five feet wide. A man could walk about comTHE BLOOD VEINS OF THE ROBOT


fortably, standing erect. The floor of concrete sloped down from the center at a slight angle. The pinnacle at the center was flattened into a small cup-like platform about nine inches across. The slightly sloping floor was round in shape, with slots set in at intervals to accommodate the chain mechanisms which Mandraga had designed to elevate the various coins to the hopper of concrete constructed at the very top. The flattened tubes of various sizes curved from the hopper down into the space above the small, round, sloping-sided platform. Twisting and curving as they were, they had the appearance of entrails in a living mechanism. Each tube opened at some point directly over the exact center of the little platform. Mandraga had so adjusted each separate tube that a coin dropping from the hundred or more of these veins, as he had called them, would strike each upon the identical spot of the cup-like receiver. A little pile of coins would always remain there, against which the falling silver and gold would clink. The other coins would roll off into the sloping pit over the edges and be picked up by the constantly operating lifting-apparatus, to be carried once more to the hopper above. Then again, each coin would start once more upon its journey.

There were two small windows, a few inches square, set in the back of the concrete monster, just behind the shoulders. Through these, narrow shafts of light slanted downward to the apex of the cone-shaped sounding-platform upon which the coins would fall. Narrow slots in the window-shutters on the upper floor were arranged so that they could be opened at will, the outside light-rays permitted to penetrate to the small, barred openings. There would be the glint of sunlight upon the fast-falling pile of gold and silver coins, whenever Mandraga

entered the little door and feasted his eyes upon the constant-flowing stream beating out its rhythm on the glowing anvil below the slots.

The little door in front was as strong as the door of a vault, as, in fact, it was. Mandraga had discovered this firmly built door among the cast-off debris in a building- wrecker’s junk heap. The door and its framework had been set firmly into the concrete base of the man-shaped effigy. Three little keys, inserted one after another, turned one after another, permitted it to be opened. Keyholes were in the rear of the little iron door, as well as in front, so that it could be unlocked from the inside should occasion demand. When closed, the three steel bolts automatically shot into the sockets of the frame in the manner of a snap-lock. Mandraga carried the three little keys among the other keys on the string about his neck.

There was another door, set just inside the opening. It was fashioned of perforated steel sheets which Mandraga had gilded a burnished bronze. His fancy had streaked it with strange designs in red and black. It swung back into the chamber just sufficiently wide to let him squeeze through whenever he entered. When his music would play, the iron door would be left open — thrown wide; the mellow chords would filter through sweetly between the thousands of little openings in his improvised screen. What radio instrument could provide such harmony? Innumerable buttons were set into a control board just at the side of the outer door. A slight pressure on any one of them would close a corresponding opening among the many slots in the hopper at the top of the figure standing so weirdly in the high room. At Mandraga’s finger tips were the nerve-centers which controlled the bloodstream of his



monstrous music-box. He would experiment in the manner of the man — Theremin by name, as he recalled it — who had drawn music from the air with the wave of his hands and the flourish of his fingers, blending the sounds of chaos into a perfect harmony. Thousands, millions of little voices were his to regulate in the fiber-lined tubes inside. He would make them play their melodies day and night. From his balcony above, where he had now set his bed, he could listen to their music even in his sleep — their intonations reverberating into his subconscious brain.

Time went on. The strange-looking monster stood forth in all its unearthly glory. Its wide eyes rolled this way and that in controlled abandon, the big black pupils as large as a plate. Its face was fashioned of rubber over a pliable mesh of wire. Levers and rollers kept it in motion, the cheeks distending, the heavy jaws and creased forehead moving slowly like the features of a live monster — or the product of a nightmarish dream. Yellowwhite teeth would be exposed; the tip of a wide, red tongue would protrude from between them. Restless ears would quiver. The scalp below the matted black hair would move. Aram Mandraga had fashioned his masterpiece with studied care. It was inhumanly human.

His cleverest stroke of genius had been the building of the coin-lifting device. It required power. It must be continuously operative. There must be no expense. At first he had considered building some sort of perpetual-motion device. No! That wouldn’t do. Such ideas were crazy. Mandraga would have none of them. So he purchased a small, strong, slow-speed motor, set it into a niche in the concrete base where its whir would not interfere with the mellow strains of the musicmachine, and fitted a constant-dripping oiling attachment so that it would never

become overheated with the continuous friction. It could whirl on for a year without attention. Then he tapped the electric wires which passed over his roof and led into the buildings on either side. He carefully concealed his theft so that prying eyes would not discover the two wires which he inserted through a hole he had drilled between the bricks and connected up with the little motor. There was his power. Power forever. It would cost him nothing. Thin copper tubing led down from the central oil-tank to each gear and pinion in the quietmoving series of lifting cups. No friction would mar the plaintive strains which the many coins would play.

W hen Mandraga had finished the fashioning of the strange-built vault which he had planned to house his little gold and silver slaves, he stood in admiration before the cyclopean monster of his creation — pleased with the work of his brain and hands. Now, he would start the blood-flow in its veins.

He carried the coins from the chests to the hopper in the head of the figure, lifting up the pressed-steel lid which formed the scalp and which locked into place by the manipulation of a lever from the inside of the chamber at the base. Trip after trip he made over the narrow planks from the edge of his chamber-balcony to the shoulders of his man of stone. The chests were empty — the hopper now full. In a moment he would start the motor, the hopper would vibrate convulsively as he had designed it, the current of gold and silver coins would slip into their appointed slots in much the same manner as the brass matrices are distributed in the magazine of the linotype machine. His man of stone and metal would be endowed with life. The blood-veins of the Robot would teem with yellow and silverTHE BLOOD VEINS OF THE ROBOT


white cells. His Slave — his Golem — his Frankenstein monster would live. He took down the planks. He sat on the edge of his overlooking balcony, his legs dangling over into the well below his feet. He pressed the switch-button which controlled the motor, close to his hand. The eyes began to move; the rubbercovered features to expand and contract. The coins were flowing. Then there came to his straining ears the clink, clink, clink of metal against metal. The melody of melodies had begun!

Day and night, Aram Mandraga sat on the edge of his balcony or in the rickety armchair before the golden perforatedsteel door, the outer vault door thrown wide. He would squeeze inside sometimes and watch the ever-dropping stream of coins glinting in the rays of the slanting lights filtering down from the little windows above the shoulders. That would be the only light. The chamber would be in darkness except for that little patch of gold and silver rays beneath the hundreds of little slots adjusted to a nicety in the exart center of the coin-filled cup that formed the anvil against which the little musicians played their symphony. Their work done, their note struck, they would flow over into the slight-sloping pit like water over the lip of a fountain. Into the gutters around the circular deposit-pit they would fall. The little cups of the ever-moving elevators would pick them up and carry them back to continue their music.

Night and day, Mandraga would finger the little buttons on the slot control board, regulating the pace of the little devils of the machine. They obeyed him implicitly. They sang their varying moods. The thing of rubber and wire showed that it, too, was alive to the fascination of the metallic intonations resounding in the little chamber at its base.

The ever-flowing stream gave it vitality. Its yellow face gleamed with joy and life; its eyes seemed to brighten with insane delight that matched the glistening pleasure shining forth through Aram Mandraga’s own as he listened in idle ecstasy to the music dripping within the vault, rolling and ringing in sweetest harmony.

Day and night, night and day, the plaintive chimes played on. There was something almost pathetic in the childish way poor old Mandraga would unlock the vault door and sink into the armchair for his daily round of melody after a restful, blissful sleep. Going up and down the ladders while he had been molding his stone man into the creature that now stood grimly in the high-ceilinged room, had been toilsome work for a feeble old man like Mandraga. But the subsequent music had lent unusual strength to his already tottering legs and palsied hands.

"My little slaves,” he observed, gleefully. "My prisoners, paid for with my life’s blood!” He stood back and grinned up at the twitching rubber face. "And you — my creature; it’s my blood that flows through your veins! It plays for me! It makes you live! It drips through your veins — drips — drips — drips; hard, firm metal — pounding against hard, firm metal that never yields; my little coins!”

He went back to his chair. He picked up the little prayer rug from Kashan — the last of his stock.

"Two hundred dollars you should have given me!” he pleaded. "Four hundred deep-toned voices that might fall through the half-dollar slots! Eight hundred soprano notes for the slots that hold my little quarters! Forty golden chimes in the slots that hold my half-eagles! Ten melodious double-eagles that might have given me music! You are useless — wasted — you are soft like a cushion ”

He pushed open the burnished-gold



screen with the strange designs in black and red. He squeezed through and stood in ecstasy before the little pile of gold and silver flowing over the lips of the small, raised platform beneath the slotopenings, bathed in the dimming rays filtering down through the little barred windows. He still clutched the faded brown prayer rug in his withered right hand.

He had set the slots at a measured pace. The bloodstream dropped methodically in the very center of the pile just beyond his feet. Drop — drop — drop; gold and silver-throated voices! All controlled by his little finger! He had drawn the iron vault door shut, the better to hear the magical music. A few minutes alone with his singing pleasure-makers! Then he would slip the three little keys in the lock, go outside to his deep armchair and listen to their harmony throughout the night. The concert was more wonderful than ever tonight. The filtering moonlight coming through the regulated openings in the upper window shutters, down into the music vault, glinted blue-white against the silver and gold. He crouched in a corner and closed his eyes, so that vision might not share with hearing. The music thrilled, then soothed his tired faculties, and at length his white head nodded and Mandraga slept.

W hen Mandraga opened his eyes he knew not for the instant where he was, until his ear caught the sound of the falling coins tinkling into the gutters. He was chilled and aching with a sensation of great weight bearing him down. He tried to rise from his cramped posture, but his stiffened limbs responded weakly and he struggled to his feet with considerable difficulty. His footing slipped. He reeled, and would have fallen had not the walls of the vault supported him. He was

seized with a choking sensation, and in nervous haste stretched his thin hand upward to clutch the string about his neck which held the keys. His trembling fingers touched it — fumbled nervously with it for a fraction of a moment. He would open the door — get out into the air; the little windows were not providing sufficient ventilation.

The string was between his fingers. It broke! The keys jingled down into the heaped pile of coins tumbling happily in the outward-sloping pit at his feet. As they struck, they rang with a clink that seemed to mock the methodical clink of the coins dropping down from the mouths of the slots above the little mound in the center. He reached down for them. His groping hands could not locate them among the shifting coins.

As the full significance of his appalling situation forced itself upon Mandraga, his knees gave way and he sank in a limp and motionless heap — a prisoner with his wealth. His eyes were closed. His head had fallen sidewise — directly under the slots above the heap of coins in the center. Each falling coin struck him on the temple and glanced off among its merry companions, to be picked up by the rising cups and started again upon its downward journey.

Mandraga was yet conscious; but without the power to move. His mind was active. The coins smote him with pendulum-like regularity, until each one pained like a knife-thrust.

"So hard — these metal coins,” he whispered inwardly. "They strike so hard — metal strikes on metal — that makes my music — these tones are soft — as if — they strike on a cushion. That was it! A cushion — so that they wouldn’t strike so hard! If only — my Kashan rug — my little prayer rug — was over my face — protecting me ” He tried to draw the rug



to his head, but his weakened fingers would not respond to the command of his will. It was no use. There could be no cushion to protea Mandraga’s temple.

Now, the melody of the falling coins came to him indistinaly, as if they were a great way off, and he felt the pain no longer. Aram Mandraga was drifting — drifting in a golden ship over a golden sea. The shimmering waters rocked him gently. The waves covered him with glittering spray. Then Mandraga fell into a

dreamless sleep — a sleep wherein the heart stops and the flickering lights of life go out. The coins continued to fall in measured accents, chanting a weird requiem and wasting their music. The motor whirred on relentlessly; the lifting cups replenished the hopper above the slot openings; the blood flowed on and on within the veins of the grim man of stone, whose twisting, grimacing yellow face fronted ominously the empty bed on the balcony.

The Abominable Snow Men

By FRANK BELKNAP LONG, Jr.

Blue shadows lay upon the crater’s rim,

And far above the town a traveller moved In circles through the snow; his eyes were dim From glint of sun on ice in worlds unproved.

A thousand feet below him at an inn

His host smiled wanly, said: "The fool will find

Small prints upon the snow — so small, so thin —

He will not know that they are prints which bind.”

"He will not know that they are prints which bind!”

His very words gained substance on a height,

As to his knees the traveller fell, half-blind,

And grovelled in the dimness of his sight.

"They dwell in barrows on a skyward wold And make no sound; shrill hunger is their goad:

'Tis said they feed on men when men are bold,

When men are scarce on flesh of fowl or toad.”

The silence on the heights gave way to shrieks As to a shattered cairn the traveller clung And fought a shape with bright and slimy streaks Of blood upon its fat, protruding tongue.

They came in swarms from out the crater’s rim,

The thin snow men, abominable and cold;

They came in swarms, and tore him limb from limb And strewed his flesh in ribbons on the wold.


TOUCHES

By RENIER WYERS

A diabolical little story of an artist who painted a bestial picture of honors

that had better been left alone

TANDRIV said that he had come to borrow money. Blake gave it to him willingly. Had they not formerly been good friends? Of course that was long ago and Tandriv obviously had degenerated since then. Yet — Blake wanted to aid him in some way — just for "auld lang syne.”

And for ''auld lang syne” Blake tried to stir up conversation. "Is there anything else I can do?” he asked as his visitor pocketed the money.

"No!” replied Tandriv gruffly; then added with an attempt at courtesy, "I’ve been working hard. I’m nervous. Don’t want to seem ungracious. Thanks.” Blake nodded. He found it difficult to realize that this wreck of a man was the Tandriv who had been his classmate but a few years before. The once thick, glossy black hair now hung in dead, graying strands over the tall wrinkled brow that had been fair and smooth. Deep grooves of bitterness were plowed in the pasty cheeks. The Tandriv eyes which had always been a bit too bright, now gleamed as two yellow-green orbs that were danger signals of approaching madness.

"Are you working on a painting?” Blake inquired tentatively.

"Yes.”

"I’d like to see it sometime, Tandriv.” A cold smile that came dangerously dose to being a sneer crept over the other’s features. "You wouldn’t like it, Blake. Our ideas of art differ. You’ve become famous for your flattering por560

traits, idealizing commonplace people, while I have — well, I’m here borrowing money tonight, from you.”

His expression grew hateful. Springing to his feet he began pacing back and forth.

"But my time will come!” he cried, gesticulating wildly. "Too long the world has been blinded by illusions of piety and goodness — lies. You and everyone else striving for 'beauty’ will be forgotten when I’m worshipped. There is no 'beauty’ in real life or real art. There’s only pain, and cruelty, and horror — that’s what I’m painting.”

Blake’s curiosity was aroused. He remembered their art student days and how untractable Tandriv had been. No one could teach him anything about art! He refused to follow the classic standards of composition or color. Then, too, the recalcitrant Tandriv’s choice of models had been the talk of the art colony. He would frequent the lowest dives in Paris and haunt the slums, looking for subjects to portray on canvas. Aged, drunken women; garbage-grubbing old men who had lived too long; idiots; misshapen cripples; lascivious-faced vixens; murderous Apaches; rat-like sneak-thieves — all were limned by the Tandriv brush in those early student years.

"If I remember correctly,” said Blake, "what you are saying now is quite consistent with some of the ideas — and subjects — you entertained in Paris.”

"Bah! That was only the beginning,”

W. T.— 8



snorted Tandriv. "I’ve made great strides since then.”

"Toward what?”

"Toward what? Immortality! I’ll prove it to you. Come to my place, Blake, and I’ll show you a creation, the like of which no man has ever seen before — on canvas.” There was a fanatical enthusiasm in his manner and a hint of forbidden revelation in his tone that resulted in Blake’s accompanying him.

A brisk twelve-minute walk brought them to a bleak, treeless district of poverty-tainted tenements and ugly factory buildings.

"Here’s an atmosphere you 'nice' artists avoid,” said Tandriv as they strode along through the deserted streets. Save for the widely spaced street-lamps there was no light on the thoroughfare. Even the dwelling buildings were darkened, for people who must live in tenements must rise early and light bills drain the pennies from kitchen shelves.

"Here’s where life is raw and unveneered,” he added. "Here the real man comes to the surface, selfish, cowardly, and treacherous. Dog eat dog, you know. Beauty? Ha! In spots like this, in every big city on the globe, glorious man, made in His image and likeness, spawns the future criminals of the world. Don’t think that this slum is but a phase of life with no relation to the rest of the city. It’s the rotten heart of it; the enslavement of men, women and children behind those factory walls makes it possible for 'refined’ ladies to pay you big prices for their portraits.”

He tapped Blake’s arm and turned down a side street, meaner than the rest. "We’ll be there in a minute,” he said.

Passing through an areaway between two tenement houses they came upon a refuse-littered yard. A white, full moon W. T.— 9

broke clear of the clouds and mercifully camouflaged the scene with white splashes of light and black shadow. Carefully stepping over and around heaps of rubbish and tin cans which prowling rats could not believe were quite empty, the two men came to Tandriv’s door, at the side of a long, flat, brick house.

Once inside, Tandriv turned the switch on an unshaded light bulb. "What a depressing workshop!” thought Blake as he blinked his eyes and looked about. The light revealed the interior of the house as being one long, narrow room, its brick walls unpainted. No ceiling hid the cross-beam that supported the roof. Dirt and disorder were everywhere. Paints, canvases, clothing, and cooking-utensils were strewn about, indicative of the slovenliness of the man who ate, slept, and painted here.

Blake’s attention, however, was soon drawn to a huge painting leaning against the rear wall of the studio. It reached from the floor to the roof and from one side wall to the other, fitting snugly between. It was fully fifteen feet high and at least three times as wide.

"Good Lord! Tandriv!” gasped Blake hoarsely. "What is it? What does it mean?”

Revolted, yet fascinated by the very hideousness of the painting, he stared at it for a long time. It was like looking into an immense window of hell, against which swarmed a myriad of things with distorted faces and ectoplasmic bodies, seeking to enter this world from a terrible dimension outside human ken.

Now Blake knew what Tandriv had meant when he said his earlier works had been "only the beginning.” These things were the development. The painting was a decadent exaggeration of all evil with all trace of anything redeeming omitted. It was an array of bestial, libidinous



thoughts given a semblance of ugly, antehuman form by a brush that had been dipped in oils of primordial ooze. So crowded with the Things was the canvas that no background or perspective was shown.

One figure in particular, near the center of the picture, seemed to reveal the motif of the work to Blake’s startled eyes. It had a sinister, elongated, ocher-colored face, surmounted by a gnarled forehead from which protruded two horns. Its upper torso was of human proportions but covered with bluish-green scales. Rearing up on two furry goat-like legs that terminated in cloven hooves, it appeared the most menacing of all because of its likeness to man and because of the malignant intelligence in its features.

"That shall be my masterpiece,” Blake heard Tandriv hiss. "I’m putting my very soul into it. I’ve been planning it, sketching it for years — gathering material for its execution and seeking atmosphere for it in all parts of die world.

"You know that I started my search while we were studying together,” he went on, "but you did not know what became of me after diat. I’ve been everywhere. I’ve witnessed black masses presided over by apostates from every creed. I went eastward and southward to the cradle of the human race and human sin. I went farther eastward and lived among the outcasts from Lhassa who crouch in wind-swept caves of the Tibetan Himalayas. For more than a year, with my skin dyed black as coal, I officiated at voodoo rites in the West Indian jungle.

"Who is better qualified to paint that picture than I?” he concluded boastfully.

"But Tandriv, it’s horrible — obscene. What are you striving for?”

"What difference does it make to you?” Tandriv retorted. "I tell you I’ve had a 'call’ to make that painting — a commission from the powers that ruled before man and his gods and will rule again.” Then, observing Blake’s fixed stare, he added, "That central figure, which apparently interests you, is my guide and inspiration. Call him Lucifer, Ahrimanes, Belial, Satan, or what you will— names and words mean nothing. But my portrait will awaken the world to what and who he really is.”

All vestige of sanity was wiped from his face as he raised his clenched fists and cried deliriously:

"Only a few more finishing touches and my work will be done. I must finish — I must paint what I see — the only things I see! Night and day, for years they have burned themselves into my brain. The real things of life, Blake — real! Real!”

"Then you and I see life differently,” said Blake with an uneasy little laugh. He regretted having come to view this diabolic daub. Although he tried to look at it objectively, it had started a mental maelstrom in which his critical faculties and primal fears whirled about confusedly, making technical shop-talk impossible. Well, he didn’t have to stand here gazing at the accursed picture. Besides, Tandriv, somewhat calmer now, was still decidedly unsociable. Apparently he wanted to get back to work at his evil miscreation. There was no use trying to reason with him. Blake left....

Returning to his own apartment, he tried to forget what he had seen. But the pageant of foulness persistently intruded upon his consciousness. He dozed in fitful slumber. Every time he closed his eyes the painted horrors danced before him. After an interminable period of restless tossing he arose. Gray day was breaking.

M echanically donning his clothing he left the house. For some rea-

( Please turn to page 364)

"K


STRANGE case,” said the doctor. "Their brains have been affected by some great shock and their motor muscles are partly or wholly paralyzed. Be prepared for the worst.”

He led me to a private ward. In it a twisted old man sat in a wheel-chair playing with a cane.

"That,” said the doctor, "is Hayworth. He is blind.”

I stared in disbelief. That pitiful, twisted creature my Viking friend? Impossible!

Suddenly the Thing looked up. I screamed in horror.

Have you ever seen a man who was terribly burned? That glassy texture of skin, like polished marble? Such was the face of my friend — shiny, slick, like some poisonous fish. He opened his eyes, and stared into brimming pools of horror. They were not the eyes of a person gone naturally blind. They looked as if they had been drilled with a red-hot poker. The whites were gone. Simply a black, burning depth remained. And yet, you understand, the eyeball was not destroyed.

"George,” I cried. "It is Henry. Don’t you know me?”

I approached.

Suddenly the creature drew back withered lips from yellow fangs. Staggering to its feet, it swung the heavy cane with the strength of a madman

The frightful, the utterly horrible thing that cooked the brains and deformed the bodies of the occupants of the space-rocket as they swung about the moon on their return to earth makes a thrilling and blood-chilling story.


BY WALLACE G. WEST — ALSO —

THE WHISPERER IN DARKNESS by H. P. Lovecraft

A story of outre beings from the newly discovered ninth planet — a story in which the horror rises and accumulates to a superb climax.

OLD ROSES by Stella G. S. Perry

A touching story of the Vieux Carre of New Orleans — a weird story of appealing beauty and tenderness.

CREEPING FINGERS by Loretta G. Burrough What was it that slithered through the bathroom door and flopped into the tub? This gruesome mystery is thrillingly narrated and explained.

THE EARTH-OWNERS by Edmond Hamilton

A strange story of beings from outside, that fought for the Ownership of our world — a weirdscientific tale.

THE UNDEAD by Amelia Reynolds Long Sir James Thorne was dead and buried — but what was that flapping creature with the bloated face that spread wild terror upon the moor?

These are some of the super-excellent stories that will appear in the next issue. Also, another thrilling installment of Tam, Son of the Tiger, by Otis Adelbert Kline.

August WEIRD TALES out July 1




( Continued from page 562) son not quite clear to himself he followed the route he and Tandriv had taken some hours before. As in a dream, he trudged through the morning fog and turned into the cold, damp areaway.

Stepping into the disordered little yard, he pulled himself up out of his somnambulistic state widi a start. Something had happened! People were standing about. Poorly clad working-people from the neighborhood were standing in a huddled group, talking with subdued excitement; a note of superstitious awe ran through their murmuring. Two uniformed policemen stood guard before the door to Tandriv’s studio.

" ’Tis the devil,” Blake heard one pugnacious little old woman say, "that got Mister Tandriv. Didn’t I hear him atalkin’ with the devil many a night? An’ didn’t I see the red fire of hell a-gleamin’ through the cracks in his door and window shades?”

'*Yes, yes, I heard him, too,” said another woman, fumbling with a shawl about her head.

"He was after callin’ to the devil ag’in last night,” went on the first woman. "Then all of a sudden there’s a rumblin’ like thunder only there’s no storm in the sky and the rumblin’ comes from underground; and there’s terrible wailin’ like a thousand banshees and the red gleam lights up the whole alley so that you can see die rats run for cover.”

" ’Twas the wailin’ and screamin’ that woke me,” said a third woman. "I told my John to find out who’s makin’ the awful racket in Mister Tandriv’s place. But John wouldn’t get up, him sayin’ it’s none of our business what a crazy artist is doin’ in the middle o’ the night.”

Waiting to hear no more, Blake shouldered his way through the crowd to the policemen, the elder of whom, after satisfying himself that Blake was not of the neighborhood or an idle curiosity-seeker, agreed to let him enter the studio.

"It’s O. K., Cassidy,” the officer remarked to his younger partner. "Maybe this man can throw some light on the case — he says he knew Tandriv. But mind you, don’t either of you touch anything ’til the coroner comes.”

Blake, escorted by the young patrolman, went inside. The place was a shambles. It was as though titanic forces had struggled here. Every piece of furniture was smashed. In the center of the debris was the mangled body of Tandriv.

"There’s been hell to pay here,” observed Cassidy as he and Blake stood over the corpse. Prepared as he was for the worst, Blake could not restrain a gasp of horror at what he saw. The body, grotesquely twisted, was heaped on the floor as though it had fallen from a great height or been violently hurled to the bare boards. From its twisted position it was apparent that both legs and arms were broken. The eyes of the victim were rolled upward, their pupils half hidden under the upper lids. As a final touch to the terrible deed, there was stamped on the dead man’s brow the impression of a cloven hoof.

"We couldn’t figure out what kind of a weapon made that mark,” said Cassidy. "What do you think? What do you believe killed him?”

"They did — those Things,” cried Blake impulsively, at the same time swinging about to point at die huge canvas that

leaned against the rear wall. "They ”

He stopped short, his mouth agape, and stared with amazement. The broad expanse of gray-white canvas was blank! "What were you saying, Mr. Blake?” "Nothing, officer,” he managed to reply weakly; "I don’t — know. Let’s go outside.”

TSANG, SEA CAPTAIN

By JAMES W. BENNETT

TSANG was fighting coolly, but with contemptuous ease the Count broke his holds, and Tsang was just able to avoid being rendered helpless. Once he was nearly caught by that neck grip which had so effectually disposed of Fletcher. Another time, he groaned as Mazzino tore at his hand, almost breaking the fingers.

Then Tsang seemed to tire. His parries grew less sure. The Count laughed. For Fletcher, it was a heart-breaking sound; it indicated triumph.

With a sigh, the small Chinese relaxed.

Fletcher made a mighty effort to rise, to go to Tsang’s rescue. He lurched to his knees. A sobbing moan bubbled through his froth-covered lips. He closed his eyes, to shut out the sight of his friend’s death

This thrilling Chinese adventure story is one of the features of the Spring Issue of Oriental Stories, together with stories by Otis Adelbert Kline, Robert E. Howard, S. B. H. Hurst, Solon K. Stewart, and others, now on sale at all news stands — that marvelous new all-story magazine printed by the publishers of Weird Tales. — Adv.


The Outsider *

By H. P. LOVECRAFT

That night the Baron dreamt of many a wo; And all his warrior-guests, with shade and form Of witch, and demon, and large coffin-worm, Were long be-nightmared.

— Keats.

UNHAPPY is he to whom the memories of childhood bring only fear and sadness. Wretched is he who looks back upon lone hours in vast and dismal chambers with brown hangings and maddening rows of antique books, or upon awed watches in twilight groves of grotesque, gigantic, and vineencumbered trees that silently wave twisted branches far aloft. Such a lot the gods gave to me — to me, the dazed, the disappointed; the barren, the broken. And yet I am strangely content and cling desperately to those sere memories, when my mind momentarily threatens to reach beyond to the other.

I know not where I was born, save that the castle was infinitely old and infinitely horrible, full of dark passages and having high ceilings where the eye could find only cobwebs and shadows. The stones in the crumbling corridors seemed always hideously damp, and there was an accursed smell everywhere, as of the piled-up corpses of dead generations. It was never light, so that I used sometimes to light candles and gaze steadily at them for relief, nor was there any sun

•From WEIRD TALES. April, 1926.


outdoors, since the terrible trees grew high above the topmost accessible tower. There was one black tower which reached above the trees into the unknown outer sky, but that was partly ruined and could not be ascended save by a well-nigh impossible climb up the sheer wall, stone by stone.

I must have lived years in this place, but I can not measure the time. Beings must have cared for my needs, yet I can not recall any person except myself, or anything alive but the noiseless rats and bats and spiders. I think that whoever nursed me must have been shockingly aged, since my first conception of a living person was that of something mockingly like myself, yet distorted, shriveled, and decaying like the castle. To me there was nothing grotesque in the bones and skeletons that strewed some of the stone crypts deep down among the foundations. I fantastically associated these things with everyday events, and thoughc diem more natural than the colored pictures of living beings which I found in many of the moldy books. From such books I learned all that I know. No teacher urged or guided me, and I do not recall hearing any human voice in all those years — not even my own; for although I had read of speech, I had never thought to try to speak aloud. My aspect



was a matter equally unthought of, for there were no mirrors in the castle, and I merely regarded myself by instinct as akin to the youthful figures I saw drawn and painted in the books. I felt conscious of youth because I remembered so little.

Outside, across the putrid moat and under the dark mute trees, I would often lie and dream for hours about what I read in the books; and would longingly picture myself amidst gay crowds in the sunny world beyond the endless forest. Once I tried to escape from the forest, but as I went farther from the castle the shade grew denser and the air more filled with brooding fear; so that I ran frantically back lest I lose my way in a labyrinth of nighted silence.

So through endless twilights I dreamed and waited, though I knew not what I waited for. Then in the shadowy solitude my longing for light grew so frantic that I could rest no more, and I lifted entreating hands to the single black ruined tower that reached above the forest into the unknown outer sky. And at last I resolved to scale that tower, fall though I might; since it were better to glimpse the sky and perish, than to live without ever beholding day.

I N the dank twilight I climbed the worn and aged stone stairs till I reached the level where they ceased, and thereafter clung perilously to small footholds leading upward. Ghastly and terrible was that dead, stairless cylinder of rock; black, ruined, and deserted, and sinister with startled bats whose wings made no noise. But more ghastly and terrible still was the slowness of my progress; for climb as I might, the darkness overhead grew no thinner, and a new chill as of haunted and venerable mold assailed me. I shivered as I wondered why I did not reach the light, and would have looked down had I dared. I fancied that night had

GEORGE F. JOWETT, Champion of Champions

I will give you nerves of steel and muscles

like iron”

I was once a weakling. But I craved to be strong. X increased my chest from a puny 32 inches to 47 inches.

I built up my weight to 200 pounds; neck to 1834; biceps to 18; forearms to 15J4; wrists to 8 y 2 \ thighs to 26; ray calves to 17.

Famous Athletes Indorse My Methods

My methods are indorsed by physicians and by Herman Gorner, the strongest man in the world; Arthur Dandurand, the Canadian Sandow; Arthur Gay, winner of the first prize in America’s Most Perfect Man Contest; and Jim Londos, the famous wrestler.

Ask any of these men about my system and they will tell you there is no bunk about it. They will tell you that George F. Jowett plays the game square.

Pair of Dumbbells Free To every person who takes my course I will give a pair of the patented 1 Jowett Progressive Disk Dumbbells. They cannot be equaled for workmanship and muscle building. Here’s another point — my course is laid out personally for each pmpil. Every week you receive a new set of exercises in order of progression. You get Twelve Courses covering the Twelve Principles of Life and on conclusion of your course receive an emblem as a graduate of the Jowett Institute of Physical Culture. I guarantee to build you over in 90 days or return every penny.

Get My Big Free Book

All I ask is this: Send for my big free book,

“The Thrill of Being Strong.” You’ll get a real kick out of it because of the photographs and because it shows how easily you, too, can have nerves of steel and muscles of iron. Snap to it, buddy, and get that coupon into the mail before another day goes by.

PRUSH THE COUPON TODAY ]

r — 1


422 Poplar Street, Scranton, Pa.

I Dear Mr. Jowett:

Without cost or obligation, please send me your. I illustrated booklet, “The Thrill of Being Strong.” I

■ Name ■

| Address |

I. 56R -I



«-

come suddenly upon me, and vainly groped with one free hand for a window embrasure, that I might peer out and above, and try to judge the height I had attained.

All at once, after an infinity of awesome, sightless crawling up that concave and desperate precipice, I felt my head touch a solid thing, and knew I must have gained the roof, or at least some kind of floor. In the darkness I raised my free hand and tested the barrier, finding it stone and immovable. Then came a deadly circuit of the tower, clinging to whatever holds the slimy wall could give; till finally my testing hand found the barrier yielding, and I turned upward again, pushing the slab or door with my head as I used both hands in my fearful ascent. There was no light revealed above, and as my hands went higher I knew that my climb was for the nonce ended; since the slab was the trap-door of an aperture leading to a level stone surface of greater circumference than the lower tower, no doubt the floor of some lofty and capacious observation chamber. I crawled through carefully, and tried to prevent the heavy slab from falling back into place, but failed in the latter attempt. As I lay exhausted on the stone floor I heard the eery echoes of its fall, but hoped when necessary to pry it up again.

Believing I was now at a prodigious height, far above the accursed branches of the wood, I dragged myself up from the floor and fumbled about for windows, that I might look for the first time upon the sky, and the moon and stars of which I had read. But on every hand I was disappointed; since all that I found were vast shelves of marble, bearing odious oblong boxes of disturbing size. More and more I reflected, and wondered what hoary secrets might abide in this high apartment so many eons cut off from the castle below. Then unexpectedly my hands came

upon a doorway, where hung a portal of stone, rough with strange chiseling. Trying it, I found it locked; but with a supreme burst of strength I overcame all obstacles and dragged it open inward. As I did so there came to me the purest ecstasy I have ever known; for shining tranquilly through an ornate grating of iron, and down a short stone passageway of steps that ascended from the newly found doorway, was the radiant full moon, which I had never before seen save in dreams and in vague visions I dared not call memories.

Fancying now that I had attained the very pinnacle of the castle, I commenced to rush up the few steps beyond the door; but the sudden veiling of the moon by a cloud caused me to stumble, and I felt my way more slowly in the dark. It was still very dark when I reached the grating — which I tried carefully and found unlocked, but which I did not open for fear of falling from the amazing height to which I had climbed. Then the moon came out.

Most demoniacal of all shocks is that of the abysmally unexpected and grotesquely unbelievable. Nothing I had before undergone could compare in terror with what I now saw; with the bizarre marvels that sight implied. The sight itself was as simple as it was stupefying, for it was merely this: instead of a dizzying prospect of treetops seen from a lofty eminence, there stretched around me on the level through the grating nothing less than the solid ground, decked and diversified by marble slabs and columns, and overshadowed by an ancient stone church, whose ruined spire gleamed spectrally in the moonlight.

Half unconscious, I opened the grating and staggered out upon the white gravel path that stretched away in two directions. My mind, stunned and chaotic as it was, still held the frantic craving



for light; and not even the fantastic wonder which had happened could stay my course. I neither knew nor cared whether my experience was insanity, dreaming, or magic; but was determined to gaze on brilliance and gayety at any cost. I knew not who I was or what I was, or what my surroundings might be; though as I continued to stumble along I became conscious of a kind of fearsome latent memory that made my progress not wholly fortuitous. I passed under an arch out of that region of slabs and columns, and wandered through the open country; sometimes following the visible road, but sometimes leaving it curiously to tread across meadows where only occasional ruins bespoke the ancient presence of a forgotten road. Once I swam across a swift river where crumbling, mossy masonry told of a bridge long vanished.

Over two hours must have passed before I reached what seemed to be my goal, a venerable ivied castle in a thickly wooded park, maddeningly familiar, yet full of perplexing strangeness to me. I saw that the moat was filled in, and that some of the well-known towers were demolished; whilst new wings existed to confuse the beholder. But what I observed with chief interest and delight were the open windows — gorgeously ablaze with light and sending forth sound of the gayest revelry. Advancing to one of these I looked in and saw an oddly dressed company, indeed; making merry, and speaking brightly to one another. I had never, seemingly, heard human speech before; and could guess only vaguely what was said. Some of the faces seemed to hold expressions that brought up incredibly remote recollections, others were utterly alien.

1 NOW stepped through the low window into the brilliantly lighted room, stepping as I did so from my single bright

You Can Leam


...or No Cost

Try FREE 5Days!

DON'T be unpopular, lonesome, or unhappy a minute longer. Now you can make your life what you want it to be — now you can win admiration, success and big money — through the strange power of hypnotism. I'll show you how to use this great force to help you master every situation or The Five Day Trial is FREE t

In just a few hours I’ll teach you the hidden secrets of Hypnotism — the methods used by the great operators — the amazing things you can accomplish once you understand this mighty power. You can use it to overcome obstacles, achieve your fondest ambitions and become MASTER of yourself, friends and acquaintances — either sex. See for yourself how Hypnotism can banish fear, worry and opposition — improve your memory — increase your earnings — and force others to give you the good things in life you deserve!

In his startling NEW book. The Science of Hypnotism, the world famous hypnotist — Prof. L. E. Young — reveals the most carefully guarded secrets of this fascinating subject. He not only explains the methods of noted hypnotists, step by step — but tells clearly all about the nine stages of hypnotism, the Hypnotic Mirror, Mental Telepathy, how to select your subjects, magnetic healing, methods of hypnotizing, how to waken the subject, how to make money out of hypnotism!

Try 5 Days FREE — Send No Money

So confident are we that Prof. Young and hia trreat book will quickly teach you the science of hypnotism, that we will sendyou a copywithout one cent in advancel Simply clip and mail the coupon below. When the book arrives pay the postman the special lowprice of $2.50 plus few cents postage. Then test the powers of Hypnotism 5 days! If not amazed and delighted return the book and money will be refunded at once! Mail the coupon now.


800 N. Clark St., Dept. G-860, Chicago

Mysteries of Hypnotism Revealed

How to Hypnotize at a glance Susceptible Subjects

How to Hypnotize by Telephone

How to Give an Entertainment

How to Maks Others Obey You

Overcoming Bad Habits

How to do Dozens of Hypnotic Feats

Use of Hypnotism in Operations

Franklin Publishing- Co., Dept. G-860 800 N. Clark St., Chicag-o, Illinois.

Please send me your amazing new hook — The Science of Hypnotism — by Prof. Young. When the book arrives I’ll pay the postman only $2.50 plus postage. If I am not satisfied after 5 days' trial, I may return the book and you are to refund my money.

Town State

If you are likely to be out when postman calls send $2.50 with coupon and we’ll pay delivery charges. Customers outside U. S. must send cash with order.



moment of hope to my blackest convulsion of despair and realization. The nightmare was quick to come, for as I entered, there occurred immediately one of the most terrifying demonstrations I had ever conceived. Scarcely had I crossed the sill when there descended upon the whole company a sudden and unheralded fear of hideous intensity, distorting every face and evoking the most horrible screams from nearly every throat. Flight was universal, and in the clamor and panic several fell in a swoon and were dragged away by their madly fleeing companions. Many covered their eyes with their hands, and plunged blindly and awkwardly in their race to escape, overturning furniture and stumbling against the walls before they managed to reach one of the many doors.

The cries were shocking; and as I stood in the brilliant apartment alone and dazed, listening to their vanishing echoes, I trembled at the thought of what might be lurking near me unseen. At a casual inspection the room seemed deserted, but when I moved toward one of the alcoves I thought I detected a presence there — a hint of motion beyond the golden-arched doorway leading to another and somewhat similar room. As I approached the arch I began to perceive the presence more clearly; and then, with the first and last sound I ever uttered — a ghastly ululation that revolted me almost as poignantly as its noxious cause — I beheld in full, frightful vividness the inconceivable, indescribable, and unmentionable monstrosity which had by its simple appearance changed a merry company to a herd of delirious fugitives.

I can not even hint what it was like, for it was a compound of all that is unclean, uncanny, unwelcome, abnormal, and detestable. It was the ghoulish shade of decay, antiquity, and desolation; the putrid, drippirtg eidolon of unwholesome

revelation, the awful baring of that which the merciful earth should always hide. God knows it was not of this world — or no longer of this world — yet to my horror I saw in its eaten-away and bonerevealing outlines a leering, abhorrent travesty on the human shape; and in its moldy, disintegrating apparel an unspeakable quality that chilled me even more.

I was almost paralyzed, but not too much so to make a feeble effort toward flight; a backward stumble which failed to break the spell in which the nameless, voiceless monster held me. My eyes, bewitched by the glassy orbs which stared loathsomely into them, refused to close; though they were mercifully blurred, and showed the terrible object but indistinctly after the first shock. I tried to raise my hand to shut out the sight, yet so stunned were my nerves that my arm could not fully obey my will. The attempt, however, was enough to disturb my balance; so that I had to stagger forward several steps to avoid falling. As I did so I became suddenly and agonizingly aware of the nearness of the carrion thing, whose hideous hollow breathing I half fancied I could hear. Nearly mad, I found myself yet able to throw out a hand to ward off the fetid apparition which pressed so close; when in one cataclysmic second of cosmic nightmarishness and hellish accident my fingers touched the rotting outstretched paw of the monster beneath the golden arch.

I did not shriek, but all the fiendish ghouls that ride the night-wind shrieked for me as in that same second there crashed down upon my mind a single and fleeting avalanche of soul-annihilating memory. I knew in that second all that had been; I remembered beyond the frightful castle and the trees, and recognized the altered edifice in which I now stood; I recognized, most terrible of all, the unholy abomination that stood leering



before me as I withdrew my sullied fingers from its own.

But in the cosmos there is balm as well as bitterness, and that balm is nepenthe. In the supreme horror of that second I forgot what had horrified me, and the burst of black memory vanished in a chaos of echoing images. In a dream I fled from that haunted and accursed pile, and ran swiftly and silently in the moonlight. When I returned to the churchyard place of marble and went down the steps I found the stone trap-door immovable; but I was not sorry, for I had hated the antique castle and the trees. Now I ride with the mocking and friendly ghouls on the night wind, and play by day amongst the catacombs of Nephren-Ka in the sealed and unknown valley of Hadoth by the Nile. I know that light is not for me, save that of the moon over the rock tombs of Neb, nor any gayety save the unnamed feasts of Nitokris beneath the Great Pyramid; yet in my new wildness and freedom I almost welcome the bitterness of alienage.

For although nepenthe has calmed me, I know always that I am an outsider; a stranger in this century and among those who are still men. This I have known ever since I stretched out my fingers to the abomination within that great gilded frame; stretched out my fingers and touched a cold and unyielding surface of polished glass.

Tam, Son of the Tiger

( Continued from page 463 ) ported her while she knelt and drank from the stream, using her cupped hands. When she signified that she had enough, he helped her to her feet once more. She seemed greatly refreshed.

Pointing to the split skull of the tiger, she said:

guaranteed

These well known brands only slightly used are taken from cars changing to our New Super Service Custom Built Tires. Carefully selected and guaranteed.

We have such great confidence in these tires that we guarantee them for 15,000 miles against blowouts, bruises and rim cuts*

Any tire failing to deliver this mileage will bo replaced at half price. This great Company has been satisfying customer sail over America

for sixteen years. YOU TAKE NO RISK. If any tire you order is not satisfactory upon delivery return to us at once for refund.

High Pressure Cords_ BALLOON CORDS

_jze Tires Tubes 30x3. $2.20 $1.00

Size

29x4.40

29x4.50

30x4.50

80x4.95

28x5.25

30x5.25

31x5.25

82x6.00

33x6.00

32x6.50

Tires Tubes

*1:28 *1:18

. 2.45

. 2.90, 2.95.

. 2.95.

. 3.10,

. 3.20,

. 3.20

. 3.50

33x6.75. 3.75. x.i« AllOther Sizes $3.50

All tubes new— guaranteed first quality. Send only $1.00 deposit for each tire, balanco C. O. D. Deduct 6 per cent if you send full price with order.

AMERICAN TIRE COMPANY, Dept. 936-H 1329 South Michigan Avenue Chicago, Illinois

BE A MAN!

Full of the ambition, pep and vitality of husky young manhood. Our Vitality Tablets are especially compounded to renew vigor, increase natural powers, and improve vitality. A pleasant surprise awaits you. Stop experimenting. Be safe and sure. Satisfaction or money back. Send $2 for large box, or pay on delivery, plus postage. $3 for extra strength for severe cases after long illness or overwork.

Wineholt Laboratories, Bx. 206, Woodbine, Pa.


LET us arrange a romantic correspondence for you. Meet your sweetheart thru the world’s foremost high-class social correspondence club, a club for rer,,, - fined lonely people. Members everywhere; strictly CONFIDENTIAL, efficient and dignified service. We have made thousands of lonely people happy, why not you? Write for FREE Particulars.

EVA MOORE, BOX 908. JACKSONVILLE, FLA *!


SANITARY

Rubber Goods

of ail kinds mailed postpaid by us in plain, sealed wrapper. Write for mail-order price list, saving 50%. Dept. 14, Novelty Rubber Co., 11 Chatliam St., Hamilton, Ontario.

^LIQUOR HABITS

Will mail FREE TRIAL of harmless Noxalco. Can be given secretly in food or drink for Whiskey, Gin, Home Brew, Wine, Moonshine, Beer, etc; Your request for Free Trial will promptly bring trial supply by return mail and full $2.00 treatment which you may try under our 30 Day Refund Guarantee Give Noxalco a trial at our risk. Write today. ARLEE CO. DEPT. 34 BALTIMORE, MD,

“SWEETHEARTS

Want one? Hundreds waiting for you everywhere. Write today for sealed particulars and descriptions. P. O. Box 470 7-W, San Francisco, Calif.

FALSE TEETH USERS all over the world should immediately know the joy and health benefit of E-Dent-2 that marvelously Cleans, Purifies, Preserves Plates; removes Film, Stain, Odor. 2c stamp brings you big 30 days’ free package. NELSON LAB., PASADENA, CALIF., DEPT. E.



"That was a marvelous stroke. I am beholden to. you for my life.”

Tam flushed.

"It was nothing,” he replied. "A great swordsman taught me, and I have had much practise on the hard skulls of buffaloes.”

"Then you are a hunter. Can you find meat for me? I have not eaten for three days, and am faint from hunger.”

"I will get you much meat, and quickly,” responded Tam. He picked up his yatagan and wiped it on the flank of the tiger. Here was meat, but not of a kind that he could bring himself to eat. Leopards, caracals, ounces, or any other felines were all right for food according to his ideas, but despite Lozong’s teaching he could not get over the feeling that tigers were his own kind — that to eat the flesh of one of these beasts would be an act of cannibalism. And it was quite evident that the girl did not consider the beast he had slain fit for food.

"Come with me,” he invited.

Together, they leaped the little brook, crossed the grass plot, and entered the bamboo thicket. As they were traversing this, Tam heard the sound for which he had been listening — the discordant cry of a peacock.

"Follow quietly behind me,” he said. "There is food.”

As he moved silently through the bamboos, he took his bow from the quiver, strung it, and drew forth an arrow. The bow twanged, and a magnificent bird fell to the ground, where it fluttered for a moment, then lay still.

B ack to the brook they went, to pluck, draw and wash the bird, and to build a cooking fire. Soon they were broiling slabs of peacock breast impaled on green bamboo over the hot coals.

"It tastes even better than it looks,”

said the girl as she sampled her first mouthful.

"It is the favorite meat of tigers,” replied Tam between mouthfuls, " and they are good judges of meat. They live on it.”

"You seem to know a great deal about tigers,” said the girl. "Tell me who you are, and more about yourself.”

"My name is Tam,” he replied, "and I was raised by a white tigress.”'

"By a white tigress!” she exclaimed. "The prophecy!”

"What prophecy?”

"It is a secret. I should not have mentioned it.”

"Never mind,” replied Tam, "I’ll forget it. Prophecies bore me, anyhow. Tell me who you are, and where you live.”

"My name is Nina,” she said, "and I live in Iramatri.”

"Never heard of that country,” said Tam, '•’but I’ve heard the name, Nina. She was a goddess, one of the first goddesses, in fact. They worshipped her about five thousand years ago.”

"And longer,” replied the girl. "Fifty thousand years ago men worshipped Nina.”

"There are no records that old,” said Tam, "so how could you know that?”

As he spoke, he looked into her eyes. She was regarding him oddly. For some reason a chill ran down his spine.

"Why, you wear a uraeus!” he exclaimed, noticing her serpent diadem for the first time. "Nina was a serpent goddess!”

As he uttered these words her eyes flashed with a strange light like that of the rubies that smoldered in the urams. They seemed to burn into his very being, bringing a disconcerting sensation of utter helplessness. He tried to move, to shake off the feeling, but found himself as powerless as if he had suddenly been



turned to stone. The meat which he was holding over the coals burned to a crisp, unheeded.

"You know much for a modern earthling,” said the girl, finally. "I thought the world had forgotten Nina.”

As suddenly as it had come, Tam’s feeling of helplessness departed.

"So it has, almost,” replied Tam. "She has been worshipped under the names of Ishtar, Isis, Ashtoreth, Tanit and Persephone. As Tanit she still has a few followers in the vicinity of old Carthage, and as Ishtar, superstitions concerning her are preserved throughout the world, though her followers are referred to as witches and wizards.”

"She withdrew from the world five thousand years ago,” said Nina, "because of the crimes that were committed in her name. Zealots stained her altars with human blood. Parents offered their children to be burned by sadistic priests, thinking to please her. These same priests corrupted her vestal virgins, then, urged by their lust for gold, made brothels of her temples. And when she left the world of earthlings, the priests set up graven images in her place, and called upon the people to worship these in her stead. She could have destroyed them all, but preferred to leave them to work out their own destruction.”

"Which they did to perfection,” said Tam. "There are ruins scattered around the Mediterranean from Rome to Karnak which testify to that. But tell me, how is it that you know so much about this goddess. Can it be that you— —?”

He paused suddenly, as there came to his ears a sound like the roll of distant thunder — or elephants stampeding. The girl heard it at the same time, and they both stood up. Looking out over the waving grass tips, Tam saw, converging toward them, a semicircle of beasts that

Gray Hair Pencil

.Instantly changes GRAY HAIR to youthful color.

v Latest method known to keep gray away from Roots, Temples and Parting. Cannot be detected. Will not fade or wash off.

^ u ii ii. fcfr- Delights both men and women.

lt’si7r§*'T, F7 Gra y hair penGIVEN to

FREE uickly introduceOratox.

Send For It No w! w l, *™“®’ Ju S ts e nd name and address

JUEL E5ENN, 1434 N. We lls St., Dept, a 735 Chicago

Meet your sweetheart. - Receive interesting letters, photos. Many attractive and wealthy. Stamp appreciated.

W. T. BRAUN, 353 W 47th, Chicago August Issue Weird Tales, Out July 1

LONELY?

Over the Mountains

front Los Angeles

Think of It l FIVE HUNDRED FIFTY-NINE MILES ove*

rough mountainous country burning only ELEVEN GALLONS OF GASOLINE. Imagine more than FIFTY MILL'S TO THE GALLON. That is what the WHIRLWIND CARBURETING DEVICE does for D. R. Gilbert, enough of a saving on just one trip to more than pay the cost of the Whirlwind.

The Whirlwind Saves Hmisb Millions Of Doum Yearly

Whirlwind users, reporting the results of their tests, are amazed at the results they are getting. Letters keep streaming into the office telling of mileages all the way from 22 to 59 miles on a gallon, resulting in a saving of from 25% to 50% in gas bills alone.

Mark A. Estes writes, ‘‘I was making 17 miles to the gallon on my Pontiac Coupe. Today, with the Whirlwind, I am making 35 5-10 miles to the gallon.”

P. P. Goerzen writes: “34-6-10 miles with the Whirlwind, or a gain of 21 miles to the gallon.”

R. J. Tulp: “The Whirlwind increased the mileage on our Ford truck from 12 to 26 miles to gallon and 25% in speed.”

Car owners all over the world are saving - money every day with the Whirlwind, besides having better operating motors. Think what this means on your own car. Figure up your savings — enough for a radio— a bank account — added pleasures. Why let the Oil Companies profit by your waste? Find out about this amazing little device that will pay for itself every few weeks.


In just a few minutes the Whirlwind can be installed on any make of car, truck or tractor. It’s actually less work than changing your oil, or putting water in your battery. No drilling, tapping or changes of any kind necessary. It is guaranteed to work perfectly on any make of car, truck or tractor, large or small, new model or old model. The more you drive the more you will save.

SALESMEN AND DISTRIBUTORS WANTED FREE SAMPLE AND $100.00 A WEEK OFFER Whirlwind men are making big profits supplying this fast selling? device that car owners cannot afford to be without. Good territory Is still open. Free sample offer and full particulars sent on request. J ust check the coupon.


No matter wbat kind of a car you have— no matter how big a gas eater it 18 — The Whirlwind will save you money. We absolutely guarantee that the Whirlwind will more than save its cost in gasoline alone within thirty days, or the trial will cost you nothing. We invite you to test it at our risk and expense. You are to be the sole judge.

BESSBBBBB FREE TRIAL COUPON H89BHHB1 WHIRLWIND MFG. CO.,

Dept. 662-A, Station C, Milwaukee, WIs.

Gentlemen: You may send me full particulars of your Whirlwind Carbureting 1 device and tell me how I can get one free. This does not obligate me any way whatever.

NAME ■

ADDRESS

COUNTY STATE—

□ Check here if you are interested in full or parttime salesman position.



were larger by far than the biggest elephants he had ever seen. They were twelve to thirteen feet high at the shoulders, and the tops of their massive heads on long, arched necks, were from fifteen to sixteen feet above the ground. They were almost hairless, but protected by skin as thick and leathery as that of the rhinoceros.

Mounted on these huge beasts were giant riders, terrible of mien and most extraordinary in appearance. At first Tam thought there were two on each beast, but as they drew closer he saw that each rider was of immense size and had two pairs of arms. They were a white race, but pasty white, as if they had never seen sunlight. Each monster carried a longshafted trident couched like a lance, a bronze mace with a hideous human head graven on the knob, and an immense tulwar, a sword with a curved blade and an elaborate guard. The fourth hand, weaponless, held the reins which guided the giant steed.

The riders wore brazen helmets, flat collars of the same material that represented twining serpents, bangles on their wrists and arms, and the skins of animals wrapped about their loins. One, who seemed to be the leader, wore a magnificent golden helmet decorated with three faces like his own, one on each side and one in die back. In addition to the snake collar, his torso was covered with scalearmor, and he wore a long necklace of white human skulls.

"The gods of India!” exclaimed Tam. "And I thought they had no real existence!”

"Save me! Hide me!” pleaded the girl. And Tam saw in her eyes the same look of horror that had been there when first he saw her. "If I can not escape them, the world — your world — is doomed!”

He took her hand, and together they

STATEMENT OF THE OWNERSHIP, MANAGEMENT, CIRCULATION, ETC., REQUIRED BY THE ACT OF CONGRESS OF AUGUST 24, 1912,

Of Weird Tales, published monthly at Indianapolis, Indiana, for April 1, 1931.

State of Illinois \

County of Cook / ss -

Before me, a notary public in and for the State and county aforesaid, personally appeared Wm. R. Sprenger, who, having been duly sworn according to law, deposes and says that he is the Business Manager of the Weird Tales and that the following is, to the best of his knowledge and belief, a true statement of the ownership, management (and if a daily paper, the circulation), etc., of the aforesaid publication for the date shown in the above caption required by the Act of August 24, 1912, embodied in section 411, Postal Laws and Regulations, printed on the reverse of this form, to wit:

1. That the names and addresses of the publisher, editor, managing editor, and business manager are:

Publisher — Popular Fiction Publishing Company, 2457 E. Washington St., Indianapolis, Ind.

Editor — Farnsworth Wright, 840 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago, I1L

Managing Editor — None.

Business Manager — William R. Sprenger, 840 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago, 111.

2. That the owner is: (If owned by a corporation, its name and address must be stated and also immediately thereunder the names and addresses of stockholders owning or holding one per cent or more of total amount of stock. If not owned by a corporation, the names and addresses of the individual owners must be given. If owned by a firm, company, or other unincorporated concern, its name and address, as well as those of each individual member must be given.)

Popular Fiction Publishing Company, 2457 E. Washington St., Indianapolis, Ind.

Wm. R. Sprenger, 840 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago, 111.

Farnsworth Wright, 840 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago, 111.

George M. Cornelius, 2457 E. Washington St., Indianapolis, Indiana.

George H. Cornelius, 2457 E. Washington St., Indianapolis, Indiana.

P. W. Cornelius, 2457 E. Washington St., Indianapolis, Indiana.

3. That the known bondholders, mortgagees, and other security holders owning or holding 1 per cent or more of total amount of bonds, mortgages, or other securities are: (If there are none, so state). None.

4. That the two paragraphs next above, giving the names of the owners, stockholders, and security holders, if any, contain not only the list of stockholders and security holders as they appear upon the books of the company, but also, in cases where the stockholder or security holder appears upon the books of the company as trustee or in any other fiduciary relation, the name of the person or corporation for whom such trustee is acting, is given; also that the said two paragraphs contain statements embracing affiant’s full knowledge and belief as to the circumstances and conditions under which stockholders and security holders who do not appear upon the books of the company as trustees, hold stock and securities in a capacity other than, that of a bona fide owner; and this affiant has no reason to believe that any other person, association, or corporation has any interest, direct or indirect, in the said stock, bonds, or other securities than as so stated by him.

5. That the average number of copies of each issue of this publication sold or distributed, through the mails or otherwise, to paid subscribers during the six months preceding the date shown above

is (This information is required from

daily publications only.)

WM. R. SPRENGER,

Business Manager.

Sworn to and. subscribed before me tttis 1st day of April, 193L RICHARD S. GOULDEN,

[SEAL] Notary Public.

My commission expires May 4, 1934.



sprinted for the bamboo thicket. But they had not gone a hundred feet when they were halted by a shower of stones, and there charged out at them from the thicket a mob of hairy, shambling creatures, man-like and yet ape-like. They were armed with slings and clubs, and each carried a bag of large pebbles that hung from a cord around his neck.

"They saw our smoke and sent the Zargs to cut off our retreat before they charged,” said the girl. "We are in a trap.”

Tam quickly strung his bow, and sent an arrow through the breast of the foremost Zarg. He fell without a sound, and the others paused, but did not cease hurling their stones. By this time the giant riders had come within range. Tam brought down the first of these with an arrow through the left eye. Then he heard a shout from the gold-helmeted leader:

"Dismount, Asoza, and cut down the youth.”

A pasty-faced giant, fully eight feet In height, swung down from his high saddle and ran forward, whirling his tulwar and mace until they whistled in the air.

Tam launched an arrow, which glanced from the brazen collar. They he whipped out his yatagan and dah, and awaited the onslaught. As they came together, the giant swung his tulwar in a neck-cut that would have decapitated the youth had it landed. But Tam ducked, and extended his point, wounding his adversary in the groin.

After that they fenced, blade clashing with blade, and Tam was sorely put to it, not only to defend himself from the whistling tulwar but to avoid the smashing blows of the heavy mace.

While he was thus occupied, he saw the golden-helmeted leader swiftly ride up to where the girl stood, stoop, and swing

PERSONALITY and CHARACTER ANALYSIS

What the Stars Have in Store for You

Send foirtlidate and 12 cents (coin or stamps) for sample personality and character analysis covering: vocational guidance, marriage, health, lucky days, etc., as prepared by an eminent astrologer.

J. M. SIMMONS & CO.

109 N. Dearborn St., Chicago, 111.

MARRY!

If you want "A Rich Wife!”, or "Wealthy Husband!”, send for our big (FREE) list of descriptions. ("ONE”) may be your ideal.

AMERICAN FRIENDSHIP SOCIETY Box 100- AD. Detroit, Michigan


Song- Writing:

SONGWRITERS: READ “SONG REQUIREMENTS

of Talking Pictures, Radio and Records,” an explanatory, instructive book SENT FREE to aspiring writers of words for songs. We compose, arrange music and secure copyrights. Write today. Newcomor Associates, 1674-Z Broadway, New York. SONG-POEM WRITERS — WE COMPOSE MUSIC. Guarantee publisher’s acceptance. National

1475WE-Broadway New York.

SONG POEM WRITERS — “REAR” PROPOSITION. Hibbeler, D-156, 2104 Keystone, Chicago.

Help Wanted

POSITIONS ON OCEAN UINERS; EXPERIENCE unnecessary. List of positions free. 292-G, Mount Vernon, N. Y.

Astrology

KNOW YOUR FUTURE— YOUR COMPLETE PERsonal forecast — 25 large pages. Employment, love, marriage, etc. Give Birthdate. Pay 75c and postage when delivered. Complete satisfaction or money back. Thurston, K-~20 W. Jackson, Chicago.

Old Gold Wanted

MAIL US YOUR DISCARDED JEWELRY, GOLD

Crowns, Watches, Diamonds. Money sent at once. Goods Returned if our offer refused. United States Smelting Works, Dept. 19, Chicago.

Personal


World’s Greatest Social Extension Bureau. Make new friends. We have a companion or sweetheart for you. Many worth 5,000 to 75,000. Photos, descriptions, introductions free. Send no money. Standard Club. Box 607, Grayslake, 111.

LETTER CLUB FOR LADIES AND GENTLEMEN. Big paper free, send for one. Eastern Agency 22,

Bridgeport, Conn.

CORRESPONDENCE CLUB — BOOK OF PHOTOS and descriptions of wealthy members sent free in plain wrapper. The Exchange, Dept. 24, Kansas

City, Mo.

CORRESPOND— 25 LOVELY GIRLS’ ADDRESSES, photos 10c. ARTS, BE-1611, Denver.

57 6



The Whisperer in Darkness

By H. P. LOVECRAFT

A N eery novel by one of the. supreme masters of the weird tale. A story of the horror that stalked the Vermont hills — a great masterpiece of outre literature — a goose-flesh tale of unthinkable evil from Space — a shuddery tale of dread and menace that will make the drills run up and down your spine.

A fter two years of silence, Mr.

■ Lovecraft has written a horrorstory that will be acclaimed by many as the greatest weird story ever written. This triumph of sheer nightmare horror will be published complete in the

August issue of


• On Sale July 1st

•

To avoid missing your copy, clip and mail this coupon today for SPECIAJL SUBSCRIPTION OFFER.

840 N. Michigan Are.,

Chicago, 111.

Enclosed find $1.00 for which send me the next five issues of WEIRD TALES to begin with the August issue ($1.25 in Canada). Special offer void unless remittance is accompanied by coupon.

Address —

City State

her up in front of him, kicking and struggling. He had been fencing carefully before, but this sight made him reckless. Springing in close, he delivered a savage shoulder cut. His blade bit through the brazen collar, and shearing flesh and bone alike, sliced down through the heart of his adversary.

But he paid for his temerity. The heavy mace, swinging wildly in one of the four flailing hands, collided with the side of his head. There was a brief flash of a million multi-hued sparks, and oblivion.

Left for dead by his strange enemies, Tam comes to his senses only to face new and undreamed-of perils. Read of his thrilling adventures in the August Weird Tales, on sale July 1st.

PHANTOMS

By ALICE I ’ANSON

Icy finger-tips of rain Tap upon my window-pane; Lonely specters pace the gloom Of my ivy-mantled room When the last faint bars of light Usher in the boundless night! Foolish passions, brief and vain. Agonies of joy and pain,

Not a single one was worth All the pangs that gave it birth! They are dead as drifted leaves Underneath the dripping eaves Or as blasted fruit that falls By an orchard’s crumbling walls! When the chill November flood Pours, and pours; until my blood Is cold as the half-frozen rain, Darkness brings the ghostly train; And their pitiful unrest Stirs wild longings in my breast!

W. T.— 9

[THE END]
