============================================================
Weird Tales
Volume 35, Number 6
Date: November 1940
Cover Price: 25¢
============================================================
============================================================
TABLE OF CONTENTS

  1. "Every item guaranteed" by Experience unnecessaryWrite quick for FREE SALES EQUIPME
============================================================
============================================================
EVERY ITEM GUARANTEED
by Experience unnecessaryWrite quick for FREE SALES EQUIPME
============================================================
'May plotted to ilow up the mausoleum.”

■a.

Over

By DOROTHY QUICK

Turning in his grave was Rufus Fletcher’s way of making his family turn over a new leaf.

HE very last time I saw Rufus Fletcher he was in a rage.

"Young man,” he snarled, "you’d best keep away from my family. The things they do are enough to make me turn over in my grave!”

I muttered something about being sure Celia was too sweet to worry anyone.

He looked at me and little wrinkles of laughter pushed the anger out of his eyes.

"That shows how much you don’t know, young man. blonde curls, blue eyes, peaches and cream complexion, a beautiful torso and a smile that mows them down! That’s Celia. She looks lilce an angel at the top of a Christmas tree, too

n.



holy -to touch, but don’t let that mislead you. She’s engaged to you and she came in at four o’clock this morning and spent twenty-five minutes in the hall saying good-night to the upstart she’d been out with. I declare, it’s enough to make a man turn in his grave when a girl carries on like that!”

TT ’WAS enough to make me feel some

cool prickliog dowm my spine. I, too, had spent a long time saying good-night to Celia on various occasions, Celia in my arms, her lips clinging to mine. I was deeply in love with Celia. I’d thought she was in love with me, but if I was just part of a racket — her fiance, perhaps because her grandfather approved of me — I felt rage surging through me.

"And that’s not ail,” old Rufus went on. "It isn’t enough that my granddaughter carries on in what I consider an indecent fashion — her mother does the same thing. She’s got a gigolo! A young Italian she’s supporting with my money! I declare, I’m ashamed of Frances and her husband— a stuffed shirt — as for Timothy, he’s my only son, but he gives me no peace. Wastrel, drunkard, his wife’s a fool, and my grandson Rufe is no better. He doesn’t drink, but his business methods are nefarious. He’d skin me alive if he could get another nickel for it, and he knows his methods burn me up.”

"But, sir,” I interjected, I was afraid he would have a stroke, the red was mounting in his face and his white eyebrows jutted out from his forehead like tufts of cotton on a ripe tomato.

"No buts. My other daughter ought to be a comfort to me — the spinsters in the family usually are — but May isn’t. She’s' got queer Communistic ideas, and practically goes around waving a red flag. I sit on her of course — I sit on all of them. They know what I want, what I like and what I don’t. I keep them in line, but I’m

getting old— -eighty-one, and what will happen when I’m gone I don’t know. I don’t expect any peace in my grave, but I’ve found a way to manage them. Tell that father of yours I want to see him. I’m going over it again with him just to be sure he understands. Don’t marry Celia unless you can wield a horsewhip and are willing to. She’s young — ^you might be able to tame her down.”

Just at this point Celia, ravishing in ice blue satin and ermine, came in.

"So,” she said, in the voice that always reminded me of the chiming of silver bells, "he’s been maligning me.” She dropped a kiss on the old man’s halo of thistledown hair.

"Get along, and come in earlier tonight.” His tones were gruff, but his eyes were smiling and the red was fading from his forehead.

“I’ll make it three, just for your sake. Come on Terry.” She caught my hand.

■ "Don’t forget to tell your father, I want to see him tomorrow,” Rufus called as we went out.

"Oh, dear,” Celia w'hispered, "he wants to see his lawyer. That’s a bad sign!”

"I don’t consider wanting an interview with my father anything of the sort,” I said stiffly.

"Stupid, you know I didn’t mean that. Your father’s a dear, almost as nice as his son.” We were in the famous hall Rufus had been talking about, and Celia put her atm around my neck. "I’m afraid he’s going to change his will again, and maybe this time I’ll be out. Oh, well, let’s forget these sordid things.” She tilted her face so her lips came close to mine.

I didn’t kiss her. I v/as remembering what old Rufus had said.

"Celia,” I remarked sternly, "my lovemaking can’t be very satisfactory if you have to find other kisses, so perhaps we’d better consider our engagement — ”

TURN OVER


Her face paled and she put her lovely hand over my mouth.

"Oh, no, Terry. No! I guess Rufus told you about last night? You were so busy I did go out with Bob Morton. I did drink too much, I did let him kiss me. I wanted to find out if any other man could thrill me as much as you do.”

"Did you — find out?” I managed to mumble through her fingers.

"I found out that I got a certain animal reaction — any man that isn’t unattractive can give a woman that — but there wasn’t any more — ^no sting to it. I didn’t want to carry on, I didn’t vtant to belong to him wholly the way I want to belong to you. Oh, Terry, let’s get married soon.” She took her hand away.

KISSED her. "We’ll be married in June,” I announced.

She clung to me. "No, Terry, sooner. Let’s go down to City Hall tomorrow. The Fletchers are rotten stock, and even though my name’s Norton I have Fletcher blood. I need someone to look after me. Let’s get married right away!”

"Good idea!” Rufus popped his head out from behind the velvet curtain where he’d been hiding. "Promise me, Terry, you’ll marry her no matter what that weakminded creature, her mother, says.”

"I promise,” I told him with due seriousness. We shook hands, while Celia clapped hers, then smiling, like a benign old Santa Claus, he let us out the front door.

"Best night’s work I’ve done in a long time.” His words floated after us, but Celia and I w'ere too busy making plans for the wedding to hear. Neither of us had any way of knowing that we would never see Rufus alive again.

When we came home we were met by Mrs. Norton who told us tliat shortly after we’d gone, Rufus had had a stroke and died almost immediately.

"We were just talking when it happened — just talking — poor dear father.” She began to sob.

I could imagine what the "just talking” had consisted of! Being in my father’s law office, where Rufus Fletcher’s affairs were handled, I knew every time his daughter "talked” to him it meant money, requests that usually were granted. Tonight he’d been on a rampage anyway so had probably refused. That would have been a signal for fireworks. I could picture everything perfectly but I hadn’t much time to check. Here I was witli two wailing females on my hands. Celia had buried her face on my shoulder and begun to cry. I knew her tears were genuine, she had been fond of the old man, but I wasn’t sure about her mother’s.

I was greatly relieved when I saw my father coming downstairs. He looked very solemn and rather disturbed.

“I’m glad you’re here, Terry,” he nodded to me, and then addressed Mrs. Norton. "I’m sorry to intrude on your grief and that of the other members of the family, but in view of the” — -he hesitated — "rather unusual directions Mr. Fletcher has left for his burial, I thought I’d better talk to the family at once. The others are waiting in the library.”

Then and there I knetu Mrs. Norton’s grief wasn’t real. She stopped sobbing at once and regarded my father coldly. "Surely Mr. Winthrop, we might have a few hours of privacy.”

"It seems best to acquaint you with these — er — somewhat unusual provisions -—at once — ”

"Just what are these arrangements to which you refer?”

“If you’ll come to the library I’ll go into them fully.”

In solemn procession we followed my father. Celia clinging to me. Once there we found Thomas Norton, very quiet and Timoiliy Fletcher and his son. Timotiiy

•76


had been drinking and young Rufe had the avaricious look in his eyes his grandfather had disliked. His mother, Bertha Fletcher, was a nondescript kind of person; she was sniffling unobtrusively. May Fletcher sat straight and stiff in a highbacked chair. She was the only one who resembled Rufus, and the likeness came more from her thick white hair, which aureoled her face as her father’s had done.

They all looked up when we came in and Thomas Norton came over and put his arm around his wife. She promptly shrugged it away. Frances was the brittle, beauty parlor tj^e — a woman of forty-five who looked thirty, but nevertheless gave the impression to a really observant regard, that without the make-up, massages, and lotions she would look her age.

Young Rufe acted as spokesman. "We are alTvery curious, Mr. Winthrop.’’

My father sat down and eyed him.

"I don’t doubt it. Once again my apologies for intruding upon your — er — grief, but as Mr. Fletcher has made some very peculiar arrangements I thought you should Icnow about them beforehand. For instance the coffin that your father ordered — and paid for — is extra wide.”

There was a little chorus of exclamations. May Fletcher finally crashed through with, "May I ask why?”

"Certainly. Your father expects to turn often in his grave.”

Another chorus of exclamations; the shock stopped Celia’s crying.

"Mr. Fletcher said that with the collection of heirs he had — I beg your pardon but I am quoting the words of your father — that he would probably spend most of his time turning in his grave, so he might as well do it in comfort.”

"Preposterous — ^v'on’t allow it!” Timothy spoke up.

My father shook his head. "You can’t prevent it. Mr. Fletcher had it put in his will. The coffin will be connected with

a very expensive electrical apparatus, which will register each turn on an instrument in my office. It has already been installed in the family mausoleum by the electric company Mr. Fletcher selected. When Mr. Fletcher’s — er — remains are placed there it will be connected with wires coming from the coffin. In the bottom is a thin pad on which Mr. Fletcher will lie. If Mr. Fletcher turns in his grave, it will definitely be registered. I have instructions to have a clerk constantly watching the instrument in my office which will register the convolutions.”

"It’s crazy, and shows that my grandfather — ” Rufe began.

My father held up his hand.

"There’s a good reason for it. Mr. Fletcher has left his estate divided equally between you all, including Mr. Norton and Mrs. Timothy Fletcher. Fle said he’d like them to have some independence — they hadn’t had any so far, and if they didn’t soon they’d be buried without ever having been able to call their souls their own.”

Mrs. Norton bit her lip, Timothy Fletcher laughed aloud, while his son was obviously annoyed.

Father continued, "The money is to be held in trust by the bank and myself and paid out in a monthly allowance to each one, hut if Rufus Fletcher turns in his grave that month’s check is to be withheld from the person responsible for his turning and divided equally among the others, or if I cannot determine who is responsible, then no one is to receive any money that month, and the money is to go to charity.”

"We can break the will,” Rufe squinted his eyes. "It’s perfectly obvious that my grandfather was out of his head.”

I^Y FATHER smiled. "Mr. Fletcher anticipated that you might say that, and also that the — er — ^unusual arrangeTURN OVER


ments might give some cause for such a conclusion, and guarded against any action on your part. He had three of the finest sanity experts examine him and certify to his sound mentality, also two judges and his personal physician. I think you’d not get very far witli a suit, Rufe, and I must also tell you that anyone who tries to break the will can have no share whatever in the estate.”

Rufe’s importance collapsed like a deflated rubber tire.

Mrs. Norton began sputtering until May drew herself up still higher in her cliair.

"Don’t be ridiculous, Frances. It’s all very silly. I’m sure I’d never do anything to — to — ^make Father turn in his grave, but if that’s the way he wanted things to be we’ll have to abide by what he says in the wUl.”

"I’ll jolly well say so, and I think it’s a good joke on all of us.” Timothy laughed.

"You won’t think it’s so funny when you have to stop drinldng.” It was the first time Bertha, Timothy’s wife, had ever asserted herself so far as I, or anyone else, knew. We all looked surprised, Tifaotlay most of all. The mirth trickled out of him.

Frances Norton looked at May. "You don’t need to be so sure of yourself either, my dear sister. Father didn’t approve — ”

“When it comes to approving, how about your — ” May cut in but father stopped her.

“It may interest you to know a few of the things your father most disliked. He gave me a list, but it’s pretty firmly stamped on my mind. Once again I apologize — -you’ll realize, however, I’m only quoting:

"May’s Communistic ideas. None of my money can support anything but Americanism, and I don’t like her holier-thanthou attitude either. The two don’t go togetlier and she’d better forget them both.

"As for Frances, she’d better stick to her

husband, forget society and try to be a good mother, and not spend so much on clothes.

"Timothy — stop drinking. Get to know your wife and thrash your son.

"Rufus, try to learn it’s more blessed to give than to receive, and honesty is the best policy.

"Celia, be sweet and natural, stop playing, and make Terry a good wife.”

At this point Celia put her hand in mine.

Then Father went on. "Fle said, 'The only thing Thomas and Bertlaa can do to make me mad is not to take advantage of the independence I’m giving tliem.’ There, I think these things are almost verbatim, but I’ll mail a copy to eadi of you. I also forgot to mention there is a register here as well as in my office.” He walked to the book case, turned a key, swung open the door; the boolcs came with it, and behind was something that looked like a radio. On the dial, which resembled a compass, were four things — "R. I. P., Full Turn, Turn to Right, Turn to Left.” There was a needle that at present indicated "R. I. P.,” "Resting in peace.” Father said, "If tlicre’s any change, the needle indicates it, also a bell rings. It will. I’m afraid make quite a bit of noise. Rufus wanted it like that, but once it is noted in my office, where it rings simultaneously, though not so loud, it v/ill be switched off until the next time.”

"Idiotic! We’re all fools to even listen to this rigmarole. I shall consult a lawyer!” Rufe raged.

"If you do, you’ll lose your Inheritance. Besides the firm of Winthrop and Winthrop is the best in the city. The world knows that,” Thomas Norton said pompously.

Timothy laughed. “Don’t be an idiot yourself, my boy. There’s no use giving up anything or fighting the will. Everything will be just as Father wanted it.”

Everyone looked at him in surprise.



"Are you going to stop drinking?" his wife asked.

He laughed again. "Of course not. You don’t suppose I believe Father can turn in his grave — do you believe it?” He threw the question in my father’s face.

For the first time that evening my father smiled.

"I’ve been wondering how long it would take that point to penetrate, and who would see it first. Congratulations, Timothy. You are quite right. I don’t believe Rufus Fletcher or anyone else can turn in their grave. I told him so. He didn’t agree, but that’s beside the point. I take it no one wants to interfere with Mr. Fletcher’s arrangements.”

N O ONE did, not even young Rufe.

He was quite chagrined that he had not thought of such an obvious solution. There was a general lifting of spirits. Even May unbent and talked kindly to Bertha.

Celia clutched my hand harder, pulled me down until my face was on a level with hers. "Terry, I want to be married right away.”

"Now?” I exclaimed. "But the funeral!” "I don’t care. Grandfather wished us to be married right away — promised. I — I don’t want him to turn over in his grave.”

I looked at her closely and saw that, incredible as it seemed, she actually believed it was a possibility. I leaned over and kissed her, then led her to my father.

"We want to be married right away. Dad — tomorrow.”

'The others, who had begun to cluster in little groups, immediately focused their attention on us.

"Isn’t this a bit soon?” my father asked, but I could tell from his tone he didn’t dislike the idea.

Celia began to explain. She told them what Rufus had said earlier in the evening, and our promise, and reiterated that she

didn’t want her grandfather to turn in his grave.

“I quite see your point. So far as I can see it’s only advancing the date. I’ll arrange with Judge Freeman to marry you tomorrow. Fortunately you’ve got the license.”

Father knew Fd been carrying that around for weeks.

"Nothing of the sort. Just because Celia is an heiress is no reason for gobbling her up immediately!” Frances Norton was her nastiest self.

Father replied to her. "Celia’s always been an heiress and, so far as that goes, my boy not only is my heir but has money of his own.”

"I don’t care. I positively forbid the match, and Celia’s not of age. I won’t allow her to be married before June — if then —

'There was a silence broken by a piercing scream from upstairs. We all rushed outside to find Molly, the housekeeper, rushing down the steps faster than her age would ordinarily have allowed.

"It’s the master!” she gasped.' “I was sitting there watching him and all at once he moved. As sure as I’m speaking he turned over on the bed. He’s lying on his side, and I don’t believe it’s dead he is!”

No one spoke, no one moved. Frances turned white under her rouge. My father rushed .upstairs and came back looking pale around his mouth.

“'There’s no doubt he’s moved. He was lying on his back when I left. Telephone for the doctor, Terry.”

Dr. Linden lived next door. He came in and solemnly reiterated that Mr. Fletcher was quite dead, mumbled something about it being either a practical joke or a cadaveric spasm, and went away as quickly as he had come.

Celia turned to her mother.

"It was just after you said I couldn’t marry Terry. Grandfather knows what

TURN OVER


we say, what we do! I’m going to do what he wanted. I’m going to marry Terry tomorrow.”

This time Frances Norton made no protest.

WFPiE married at noon. I took » V Celia home to my apartment for the honeymoon as we had to attend tlie funeral the next day. I told her I didn’t think she should go to the cemetery but she shook her head.

"I’m going to be a good wife, Terry, and do what you say, but not this. Grandfather would want me to be there. I did so many things he didn’t like when he was alive that I want to make up for them now.”

"So you believe he knows?” I asked, as I kissed her.

"Yes, I do. The money doesn’t count, Terry. I— I just want to please him.”

"I know that, sweet.” I kissed her again.

rTTHE funeral was quite in keeping with the Fletcher tradition. The extra wide coffin was so arranged with flowers 'that its unusual size passed without notice. The interment was to be private. . It took place with a great bevy of electrical experts who connected a complicated series of wires supervised by my father, while the heirs took refuge in stony silence. Timothy, for once, was quite sober, and clung to Bertha in a fashion that brought a glow of happiness to eyes from which it had long been a stranger. Celia was the only one who cried, but I knew that underneath her grief was the great happiness we had found together which would soon pull her out of her misery.

When everything was finally settled, we left the mausoleum and father locked the door and put the big heavy key in his pocket.

"I forgot to tell you, tliere’s to be a guard here day -and night. Mr. Fletcher

was afraid someone might cut the wires.” He looked at Rufe and from the young man’s face it was easy to read that he had had such an idea — even though his words denied it, "As though it would be necessary!”

"You forget — ” Frances began.

"That,” Rufe faced her fiercely, "was a cadaveric spasm, or else Molly moved him. Anything else is untliinkable.”

"According to instructions I am probating the will at once. Shall I come and read it to you all tonight?” my father asked.

"No,” Rufe flung at him. Being the business man of the family, he seemed to always assume file role of spokesman, and nobody differed.

"Your first checks vdll be due on the ‘15th.” It was the tenth, so there was not long to wait.

"Considerate,” Rufe sneered.

Then tlie group broke up.

niHREE days later Celia and I were in vited to dinner by — wonders of won' ders — ^Bertha Fletcher. It was the first time we’d been to the Fletcher home since the funeral. Celia’s mother had pointedly ignored her daughter’s existence. Celia didn’t want to go but when I pointed out it would be much better to be friendly, and this was a way of breaking the ice —besides encouraging Bertha’s independence, she gave in very sweetly. As we went up the steps she said, "It’s funny, but I don’t feel any sense of belonging here any more.”

"Of course not — ^)'ou belong to me.”

The door opened; Broadstairs, the butler, was delighted to see us. Bertha came out of the living room. I was amazed at the change in her. Before she had been an inconspicuous old maid type, despite having a husband and son. Now she was as smart looking as Frances and much prettier, for her skin was naturally lovely, and



the dusky hair which was rejoicing in its first permanent made her look young and stylish.

’Tm glad you came,” she said hurriedly. "We want to see if you can’t do something with your mother. She’s been seeing a lot of that Mr. D’Alvari and I thought—"

Thomas Norton came down the stairs and greeted Celia affectionately. He, too, had suffered a"sea change.” He was more natural and much less pompous. The other drifted in— Frances, brittle as a newly formed icicle. It seemed funny to think of them all still living in the old house as they had done when Rufus was alive.

Conversation was difficult at first but soon simmered into normality.

After dinner the ladies left the dining room. I saw determination in Celia’s eye, and knew she meant to speak to her mother.

Timothy refilled his brandy glass.

"It’s funny how strained w^e’ve all felt — as though we had the sword of Damocles hanging over our heads.”

“Don’t be silly, Father. It’s all nonsense. Grandfather can’t turn over in his grave. No bell’s going to ring.” Rufe spoke calmly.

“Are you sure of that?” There was eagerness in Timothy’s voice.

"Certainly.”

"Then why didn’t you sign the papers for the Carleton deal you Icnew Rufus wouldn’t approve of?”

The young man laughed. "Because there was a clause 1 didn’t approve of! Not for any silly foolishness about graves.”

"Oh.” Timothy drained his glass and filled it again.

"Let’s go upstairs,” Thomas Norton suggested, nervously eyeing the brandy bottle.

We all started upstairs, but when we

reached the drawing room, Timothy wasn’t with us.

"I’d better go back and look for him,” Norton said to me. "He’s been drinldng very little since the funeral. I’d hate to see him start.” He turned toward the door, but Frances’ high-pitched voice arrested him. “Thomas, I wish to tell you all that I will not have my friendships interfered with — ”

"But, Mother, I only suggested—” Celia began.

"That my friendship with Tony D’Alvari is more than a friendship,” Frances cried. "You’ve all been talking about me behind my back, setting my own child against me — afraid I’ll make Father turn over in his grave, I suppose, whereas the truth is — ”

It went on and on— arguments until I wanted to pick Celia up and carry her home. It had just reached the point where a hair-pulling row between Frances and Bertha seemed imminent when the bell began to ring.

At first they thought it was the front door, but gradually the idea of what it really was seeped through their consciousness. It was the bell in the library! Rufus Fletcher had turned over in his grave. When we got there, the library dial had registered a full turn!

It seemed incredible, but they had seen with their own eyes when the apparatus was installed that here was no possible trickery. My father had attended to that. The only thing that could ring the bell was movement inside the coffin.

I shivered inwardly. Celia was quite calm, and apparently not surprised.

“I knew it would happen.” She had to talk loud, the bell made such a clamor.

“It’s your doing,” Rufus told Frances. “You and your gigolo! That’s what made him turn.”

Frances gasped, but recovered herself quickly.

TURN OVER


"Not at all. I’ve done nothing. Father — Father wouldn’t turn over for a family quarrel — he actually enjoyed those. I — it’s much more likely to be jour father. He’s probably drunk, and father always hated that.”

She was right — about Timothy. We found him sprawled oh the dining-room table, the empty brandy bottle beside him. There was no doubt of his condition being the cause of the infernal din that still went on from the bell.

By the time we’d gotten him to bed, my father arrived. Frances was screaming hysterically, "I can’t stand it — Father couldn’t turn over in his grave, but he has, he has! Oh, please make that bell stop!” Just at that moment the bell ceased ringing. It was a tremendous relief to us all.

Young Rufe tried to put some of the blame on Frances, but after everyone else had spoken up Frances was absolved from blame. She was still hysterical, so Celia took her upstairs where Bertha was already watching over Timothy.

The rest of us milled over the situation for a long time without reaching any definite conclusion. Thomas Norton believed in the supernahiral, just as Celia did; Rufe didn’t. I never had, but in view of the facts it was beginning to look as though I were wrong.

I didn’t like the glint in Rufe’s eyes.

"I am going to investigate that mausoleum and the wiring,” he announced.

“Investigate all you like, but you can’t open the coffin. That’s in the will,” Father told him. “Mr. Fletcher didn’t want to be given what he spoke of as "the once over” every time one of you doubted whether he’d moved or not.”

"If there’s trickery it doesn’t come from inside the coffin.” Rufe looked at me.

"May I ask — ” I began.

“Certainly. If one of us loses his share, there’s that much more for the rest. You married Celia pretty quickly, and she’s

been behaving remarkably for a Fletcher. I can only assume that’s your influence!” he sneered.

"Celia happened to love her grandfather. She’s the only one of you with a heart. She also thinks it’s quite possible for him to turn and she isn’t going to be responsible. So far as tlie money is concerned, I have plenty without Celia’s. I wouldn’t touch a penny of it.”

Rufe walked out of the room and May, the stiff bulwark of propriety, cried out, "Father — Father!” and fainted.

On the way home I asked my father, who was walking a few blocks with us, "Do you believe old Rufus is turning over in his grave?”

My father hesitated. "I wouldn’t have a week ago, but now—”

rpHAT was the way we all felt. Except young Rufe, who went to the mausoleum the next morning with a formidable barrage of experts of his own. They had hardly started their investigation when the bell began to ring. I was in our office at the time, and could hear it buzzing away in the room set apart for it. Rufe continued his investigations despite it, but all he got was the indisputable opinion that the bell had to be rung by movement within the coffin.

So he returned to the Fletcher mansion with no satisfaction and much poorer, for he had lost his first allowance on account of the bell’s ringing.

The rest of the month was hectic — the bell went off so frequently. Sometimes our office had difficult)' in placing the cause. Once was obvious. After the allowances had been paid Frances Norton gave a generous check to D’Alvari. Rufus Fletcher’s instructions had been definite about keeping an eye on the activities of his family. Father had suspected D’Alvari would be the source of trouble sooner or later, so he had had him watched. The



minute he went to cash the check, the bell rang!

Once it seemed as though we’d have to give up placing the blame for a half turn on old Rufus’ part, and Father said he’d withhold everyone’s allowance for the month. Then Bertha tearfully confessed that she’d given her money to Timothy. That, of course, didn’t fit in widi Rufus’ idea of independence.

Another time the bell sounded w'as when young Rufe signed the papers for a business deal his father had mentioned. The dial registered a full turn for this.

Even my sweet Celia was responsible for a turn to the left. Being lonely and bored when I had had to work late several nights, she went out dancing with Joe Blake. I knew about it and didn’t mind, but Rufus apparently did, for the bell rang.

May Fletcher set it off several times; tr\-o donations to the Communist party and one speech distinctly on the Red side were the causes.

Timothy also was responsible for electrical discords and half revolutions, for he went on drinking. Even Thomas Norton made old Rufus turn when he allowed his wife to interfere with his going to his college dinner because she wanted him to stay at home with her.

The St. John Orphanage was much richer that month and Rufe had to run the house, as he had means of his own.

The worst of all was when May plotted to blow up the mausoleum. The guards pretended to be bribed, but reported what was going on, and we caught her with one of her Communistic friends about to plant a time bomb. The needle made three full turns around ‘the dial and the bell went on for hours.

Things continued like this for several months, then the bell rang less frequently. Finally Rufe called a family meeting one morning. We all came and sat silently in the Fletcher library. The book case was

open and the dial was plain to be seen. Nobody jested about it any more; in fact, they were too serious.

"Fve never believed in ghosts. I really thought when Mr. Winthrop first mentioned the turn over business that Grandfather had been insane. I realize now that this isn’t so. There are more tilings in heaven and earth than we dream of. Grandfatlier turns all right! It registers, and if he didn’t move — actually move, I mean — it wouldn’t. I’ve had experts, and I’ve sat hours out in that cold mausoleum with the guards. I know no one touches the wires. I’ve even encouraged Father to get drunk to see if the bell w'ould ring at the right tim.e. Well, it did. I am convinced, and I’ve called this meeting because I think we’re being fools.”

"What do you mean?” Frances asked.

"To lose money all the time and be responsible for disturbing our relatives’ rest. After all, it lies with us as to whetlier Grandfather turns over or not.”

I could see Fatlier nodding his head with approval. Bertha, who had been angry when Rufe spoke of getting Timothy drunk, deliberately calmed down, and Timothy himself laughed in his jovial way.

"It would come hard with me. I’m fond of brandy.”

"You’E stop drinking it if I have to beat you to a pulp,” Rufe told him.

"Look — look at the dial!” Celia cried.

Our heads turned, like those of people at a tennis match, toward the dial. The hand, which had been at "R. I. P.,” had begun to quiver and move toward the "Half turn to the left.”

"I didn’t mean it, sir — really!” Rufe spoke as though his grandfather was actually in the room. "I wouldn’t beat him, but I will see he behaves himself — ^you’ll like that, I know!”

The hand moved back to "R. I. P.” w'here it was finally still.

"That settles it,” Timothy whispered.

TURN OVER

"I’ve never really quite believed Father moved, but I do now.”

"How can he know what we do, as we do it, so quickly?” Aday asked.

"All things are possible to the soul. It is free and can be everywhere.” Thomas Norton, who was very religious, spoke the words as though he were in a pulpit of the church.

"The old Egyptians had a theory — they believed that a unity was composed of three parts — the body, the ba, or spirit, and the ka, which was more or less the body’s guardian. The ka stayed in the tomb to watch over the body, but the ba, or spirit, could roam about at will — sometimes even take human form, though eventually it must return to its two other components,” Bertha told us. "It’s Father’s spirit that knows everything we do, though his body registers it.”

I COULDN’T help thinking how completely Bertha had clianged. She had always been scholarly, but before Rufus Fletcher died she would no more have dared to share her knowledge of erudite matters than she would have appeared in the nude.

"There’s another explanation,” I put in, for I had been giving the matter considerable thought. "I believe that everything produces a vibration of its own, like a radio wave length, for example. Well, Rufus Fletcher’s body may be so attuned to the things he disliked that when one of them happens it produces an automatic reaction.”

May nodded her head. It was~plain that this appealed to her more than any of the other reasons.

"I think the dead do know what we do. I believe they have power — much more than we, even if they can’t make themselves visible. I’ll do anything I can to have Grandfather rest in peace, and not have that horrid little hand moving

sh

around.” Celia’s voice shook with emotion.

"Good girl,” for once Rufe wasn’t intolerant. In fact, his whole nature seemed to have mellowed. "Now, how about the rest of you?” He looked around; everyone nodded. "You’ll stop drinking?” He directed his question to Timothy.

"I’d be a brute if I didn’t. Perhaps the thought of Dad turning over will keep me sober. I hope so.” Timothy was actually serious.

Bertha put her hand in his. "I’ll help you, Tim — and — I’ll be independent.”

Rufe switched to May. "And how about the Communist party?” •

She sniffed. "I’m finished with them anyway. Ever since we tried to bomb the mausoleum and they told me I belonged with the aristocrats because I owned a marble palace, for that’s what they thought the mausoleum was, I’m through! I’m thinking of taking up the cult of Karishel-Khiam.”

“Look,” Rufe swung around, "Grandfather doesn’t like it!” The needle was wobbling again.

"All right — ^I wasn’t very enthusiastic about Karish. I’ll go and help the Reverend Spleen at Father’s own church.”

The needle went back to "R. 1. P.”

"And don’t think it’s on account of the money,” May went on. "I — I hate to think of Father so restless — ”

"So do I!” exclaimed Frances. 'Tve. been worrying about it lately and I told Toni last week I didn’t want to ever see him again. You know. Father seems closer now that he’s dead than when he was alive. I want you to know, Thomas, there’s never been any harm in my friendship with D’Alvari. I was just vain epough to be flattered with attention, and silly enough to want to be young and go on dancing and having good times. I’ve given you some horrid moments, but I’ll make up to you for them.”



Norton took his wife’s hand. "I’ve been foolish, too, letting you go your own way — ^staying in too mudi. Hereafter v/e’ll step out together. I can dance myself — after a few lessons.”

Celia’s tears v.'ere quite dry now and she smiled happily.

"That just about settles everything then,” Rufe said, "except I do want you to know it isn’t all money with me either. I’m going to give up ail my shady transactions and be as honest in my dealings as Grandfather was. He made his fortune squarely, I guess I ought to be able to do as" well. It’s only lately that I’ve realized what a darn fine man he was. I want to think of him at peace.” Rufe actually wiped a tear away from the comer of his eye.

Fadier got up and said that their decision had made him personally very happy and he knew that it would have an even greater efficacy where Rufus Fletcher was concerned. Everyone sliook hands and the conference ended on a high note, unusual for that family.

O N OUR way back to the office I asked Father, "What did you think of my theory of vibration?”

*Tt’s as good as any. I’ve got one of my own.”

"Why didn’t you mention it?”

"I don’t want to interfere with their good resolutions. They’ll be hard enough to live up to as it is. But I’ll tell you if you promise to keep it to yourself.”

"Of course.”

"Not even a whisper to Celia.”

I promised solemnly.

Then Father began. "Rufus Fletcher knew his family. He Icnew that underneath all that screw ball exterior was intrinsic worth, but he was wise enough to see that only something drastic could strip off the outer skin. He w^as also sure that, alive, he couldn’t do it, but he obviously

thought he might be able to — dead. I know he believed thoroughly in after life, and the survival of the soul. But Rufus Fletdrer wasn’t a man to take chances. It has occurred to me that he might have had some kind of an electric macliine hidden in the lining of the coffin that would ring the bell and register turns or half turns every so often. He’d knov/ his family w'ell enough to Imow there’d be plenty of cause.”

"'Ibat’s a swell tlieory, but it doesn’t explain how the bell rang so opportunely.”

"Coincidence.”

"And the way the neddle quivered this morning when young Rufe tlireatened to beat up his father, and May spoke of that cult,”

“Oh, I’ll admit it’s a theory you can shoot full of holes, still it’s odd that he said in the will his cofiin must never be opened or disturbed. It was because he made such a point of that I got the idea. I may be right or wrong. I don’t suppose we’ll ever know the truth.”

We never did. The complete rightabout change- in the Fletcher family didn’t happen all at once. Ibere were lapses; Timothy found it hard to give up his brandy and Frances, even if she is my mother-in-law, is primarily a fool. The bell rang occasionally in spasmodic lengths of time over a period of thirteen months — just long enough to "set” the entire family hi their new roles. Soon they were letter perfect; then the bell ceased ringing.

No one ever doubted that it would sound again if they didn’t live up to Rufus Fletcher’s idea of them, so they did — and Rufus Fletcher rested at peace in his grave.

Had he ever turned over? Had my father just happened to hit on the real solution, or had Rufus Fletcher’s last slumbers actually been disturbed? Personally I believe they were, but it’s a question that will never be answered.

By H. T. W. BOUSFIELD

The evolution of the httman family disproved, denied — every speculator since Darwin, wrong.

I F YOU find this story incredible, I must ask you to remember that it is based upon notes made by my uncle who died in the Spring of 1939 and left

me what small property he had — an oldfashioned and dilapidated house in Caithness, a quantity of debts and very little money with which to settle them.




My uncle must have been, I think, a man of greater classical learning than he believed, and if his notes had been published by himself in the form of a properly annotated paper he might have reached the head-lines. But as I hardly know the difference between Greek and Latin other people must make what drey can of the affair. I cannot even date it, but I should imagine Uncle David’s impossible adventure happened in the early thirties — if one is to believe that it happened at all — ^because I do vaguely remember that his greatniece, Barbara Schofield (not my side of the family), was lost in an air-liner in the Spring of 1933 or 1934, and the house itself was badly damaged by fire about a year earlier.

I say at once, I have no corroborative evidence. I am too busy to go to Greece — > and I have no intention of doing so; it would cost hundreds, with an interpreter and so on. As for the Macdonald couple who looked after the Caithness house, anybody is welcome to their address, and I wish anybody joy of them — ^rude, independent, ungrateful. In fact, insolent.

'{Undated)

rpHIS is a brief account of an adventure that befell me, David Gannon, in Greece less than two years ago. I must record it before I cease to believe in it myself.

My interest in Greek remains has never been scientific enough to qualify me for mernbership of any learned Society, I fear. I have been an amateur, and rather an idle one, all my life. But I have some aitical faculty in literature, and I have a natural gift for languages. Greek literature and legend consoled me in my schooldays, and when I visited Greece for the first time I did not mind the primitive conditions that then confronted any traveler who went where tourists are not expected. The fiiowers in the valleys and the snow on the hills

actually seemed more familiar and more dear than my native Scotland.

I vaguely intended to write. But to my shame I never produced anything in all the years except one small book of lyrics — I refer to my S parades which appeared in 1927 and is now out of print. It wasn’t a success, I may say. 'The English Press as a whole ignored it, though a small edition went quite v/ell in America.

I suppose I was Greek-mad, but I most certainly was not insane!

I could not write well, I say, of the Greece I loved, but I must write now of what I saw and did and experienced during my third year in Hypata.

It’s in Arcadia (to use the traditional name) . I made it my headquarters as soon as I saw it. Indeed I bought in that remote mountain village a house of sorts where I could watch the sunrise and dream my sterile dreams and write my poems that were never quite good enough — and forget that better men than I were doing real work in the world.

In Hypata I spent the Spring and early Summer, undisturbed by political upheavals and changes of government. Nothing ever changed in Hypata. It w'as too high and too far away.

The peasants accepted m.e without animosity. They never treated me as an alien and one — my real friend and my servant — had, I believe, a genuine affection for me.

He was an old man called Peter.

Now Greece is a volcanic country, full of semi-extinct volcanoes — a country where the hills are never quite asleep. There are earthqualces in Greece that never seem to make front-page news in London — many earthquakes.

I got quite used to them, but I remember — in March it was — being shaken almost out of my bed by what seemed an endless convulsion, so that I thought the little house would fall down on me. It did not; it was sturdily built of stone, but when

THE IMPOSSIBLE ADVENTURE

Peter arrived the next morning with goat’s milk and provisions he had a tale to tell.

There had been a fail of rock, five hundred feet above me. A vineyard had been overv'helmed. The peasants had fled to the valleys. The hill-top was scarred and broken. And Peter had been caught in the catastrophe and narrowly escaped with his life.

In his guttural dialect he told me an incredible thing.

"I have found a centaur,” he said. "It is wounded, and unless you can help it will die.”

That is the proper way in which to announce the impossible: "I have found a centaur.” As one might say: "The trout are rising; come quickly.”

Of course we went through the natural exchange of incredulity and re-assertion. But I was dressing all the time I argued and disbelieved, and I ran as fast as Peter, the old goat, up that hill.

The fall of rock had been more tremendous than I’d imagined. Fortunately it had crashed away from Hypata. The top of the little mountain had been obliquely sliced off as if by a sharp knife. And one astounding thing was that a great tunnel was revealed, running down spirally into the earth.

I T WAS in the mouth of this tunnel that the incredible deferred to the impossible —

Most people imagine a centaur as a horse, four legs and all, with a man’s body, neck, head and arms where the normal horse’s head would grow. Such a monster is one of the commonest things in Greek art, and there are plenty of appropriate legends to describe them. It appears that such centaurs somehow contrive to be notoriously amorous as well as chronic dipsomaniacs, and no poet or story-teller bothered to answer the many physiological


questions that must have occurred to the least critical minds.

But I dimly remembered that before the quadrupled centaur established himself upon the average amphora there were earlier legends of creatures, derived before evolution, or God, had finally settled the problem of the ultimate body of man — creatures human to the buttocks, and then with two legs indeed, but horses’ legs hoofed and covered with hair.

Before us there was something that was all man to the hips, and then all horse. It might have been dead. It was unconscious. One of those strange but strangely graceful legs had been broken by a rock. There was a bruise on the forehead.

I shall never be able to describe my sensations at the sight. I believe I might even have sniggered, but from the waist up, at any rate, there was a fellow-creature who needed help. And from the waist up was no savage, no half man or missing link, but a blond, strapping youth with a fine head, regular, intellectual featu'res, a mass of aopped fair hair, a muscular body. From the waist up he would have made a model for Praxiteles. From the waist down the evolution of the human family was disproved, denied.

I imagine he was about seventeen years old.

In the most fantastic circumstances one can only do ordinary things. I know something of first-aid — indeed, I once began to become a doctor, but I got bored with the hard work. So I could examine "it” fairly professionally, and I soon found that there was nothing seriously wrong, apart from a simple fracture of the leg, and Peter, far calmer than I, helped me to carry it down to my house. It groaned once or twice, but I’d set the leg before pain really restored consciousness.

Life in that face made it beautiful, and intelligent. Wary blue eyes caught mine with astonishment. Movement attempted



was with pain abandoned. My centaur spoke.

I thought there was a hint of Greek in those uninteiligible w'ords, but nothing sounded that I could catch on to. I tried a dialect or two. Peter tried. I could see we were a millenium too modern. But with gestures evidently we managed to convey that we were friendly, and the centaur accepted a drink of milk, and presently slept.

This strange thing had been naked when we found him. In my bed, with blankets up to his diin, he looked like an athletic undergraduate. He looked like the sort of rowing-blue that flappers try to v/aylay for his autograph on the towing-path at Putney.

I said to Peter:

"Have you spoken about this to anybody?”

"No, sir.”

"Then swear to me you will not. Swear to me that until I permit you to do so you will not even whisper that we have found — what is it that we have found?”

"I think, sir,” said Peter, "that w'e have found a young god.”

That day was spent by the centaur in sleep, and I spent it in trying to force some sense into my conventionally astonished brain.

rpHAT night there was another upheaval, and the followdng morning Peter reported that the mouth of the tunnel was quite obliterated.

I made Peter into a nurse, and apart from occasional attacks of aw'e he did very w'ell. The patient was quick enough to notice the awe and I could see it relieved and amused him. Oh, he was a very normal young man of seventeen with the blankets up to his chin, and he began to pick up as only youth and health can.

I sat most of the time by the bedside, finding by trial and error what he liked to eat and drink.

Very soon I gave up any attempt to understand his language and I began to teach him mine.

I had never taught anybody anything before, but I think he was unusually quick. He tacitly agreed to learn, and I soon discovered what he called himself — at least it sounded like "Chalchis,” though that is the name of a city. Anyway, I called him "Charles.” After a bit he realized that he was to be "Charles,” and he laughed and nodded.

The first time he said slowly, in quite good English: “I am Charles, and you are Daveed,” I mixed myself a strong drink; I don’t knov/ w'hy.

I used to wake up in the night and disbelieve in die whole tiling, until I realized I was lying on the floor, and Charles had my bed. Old Peter, of course, was wonderful. I think he was as interested as I was, and I know he told nobody. But as Charles began to get better I began to worry.

What was to be done with him? Sometimes he reminded me of Pan, but there were no goat’s horns on his head; his ears were not pointed, and those unbelievable hoofs were not cleft. I began to see nothing incongruous in horse’s legs attached to a magnificent human body. I began to think my own useless toes, that had to be cased in leather before I could carry myself over stony ground, the absurdity, the deformity.

When I have time to write a full account of this, the photographs I took of Charles standing, running, sitting* will prove indeed that his lower limbs were more practical than a normal man’s. 'What of natural selection, of survival of the fittest? Every speculator since Darwin has been wrong.

How long would it take an ordinary

* Editor’s Note; I have not been able to find any photographs. My uncle had a camera, but two rolls of undeveloped films which I discovered amongst his effects produced nothing but vague shapes.

H. T. W. B.

THE IMPOSSIBLE ADVENTURE


modem youth, who was trying his best, and who knew no English, to express himself in that language? In three weeks Charles at any rate knew enough to tell me something about himself.

According to him the race of Centaurs had always lived in enormous caverns deep under the Arcadian Hills ever since some pre-historic battle with the Greeks had almost exterminated them. You can imagine my questions. What of air? They had plenty, it seemed, which Charles supposed came from unnoticed caves in those wild regions. That must have been a fact, or Charles himself could not have existed. What of light? Torches. Imagine a race living by torch-light for five thousand years! He added, however, that his people paid many visits to the surface of the earth, and were seldom or never seen by men. Any man or woman who came upon a centaur by chance was invariably murdered. So fear can persist! Food? They lived normally upon the blind fish caught in their underground lakes, upon mushrooms, and on any sheep or goats, birds or rabbits they managed to snare in the world above. Cereals were naturally outside their normal diet. They liked fruit when they could steal it. Vast bituminous deposits, I gathered, provided fuel for light and for fires.

Their politics? A simple patriarchal community. Religion? One god, who might have paralleled Chronos; one goddess — perhaps Diana. Arts? Pottery. Literature? They could write. He showed me some scrawls that I have carefully preserved. Upon my soul they were ideographs, as you can see; I have taken particular pains to preserve them.*

I asked if they knew clothing — for in winter the cold in those parts can be biting. It appeared that clothing was one of their

* I am still hoping to discover these specimens of picture writing. If I do, they will be found as an appendix to this paper.

H. T. W. B.

greatest problems. Almost any vegetation that they could furtively gather from the world above was beaten into fibre and with infinite care woven into fabric. Cloth was their medium of currency. A centaur with a spare robe or two was rich. No yard of cloth that could hold together, however thread-bare, was ever abandoned. And the skins of animals, of course, were used as well. But nobody wasted clothes by wearing them just to cover their nakedness.

I MADE friends with Charles. I won his devotion by giving him a shirt, a pair of trousers and a rather worn tie of my old school!

No extravagant socialite — as I believe they call rich and idle young women — has ever been more interested in clothes than Charles. I began to feel ashamed, when he got well enough to move about, that I had not provided myself with a more imposing wardrobe. He tried on everything I had — ^and his only distress was that my socks and my shoes were beyond him.

I had wondered at the hairlessness of his face. Can you imagine shaving with a blunt strip of immemorial tempered bronze? Apparently that was what Charles was accustomed to — for he explained that beards were forbidden as savagery. His delight at an old safety-razor and rather blunt blades was pathetic.

And Charles himself? He cheerfully admitted that he had no affection for his family or his race. He had no curiosity as to their fate in the earthquake. But he was quite sure they must have survived as they had survived a thousand in the past. How many of his race? He neither knew nor cared, but he did know that for some hundreds of years they had been dwindling in numbers. Were there ten thousand left? Not so many. Five? Perhaps. Two thousand more likely. His own contemporaries seemed to be suffering from an epidemic of depression.



(If it wefe due to inbreeding, Charles himself showed no signs of deterioration) . Himself, he had been forbidden to go up the tunnel on the night when the earthquake came by his father — the chief of the community — but he went because he did not care whether he were killed or not.

How did they know when volcanic disturbances were likely? There was a special class of Observers, who were also the priests, and they knew always — how, Charles did not know.

He easily got bored with too much questioning, but I obtained quite enough information for a paper tliat will stagger the British Association. Only I do not propose to publish it until I secure proper recognition. And the end of this adventure has, of course, produced some legal difficulties. I must take advice. I don’t want to be prosecuted. I realize that I may thoughtlessly have placed myself in an awkward position.

One acts for the best, and then, alas, thinks later — ^too late.

By the time Charles was up and about, chattering to me in fluent but execrable English, overeating himself with all the luxuries I coifld get (and they were not many) I made him listen to my chief worry, whidi was his own future.

At first he was blandly prepared to assume that I was always going to live in Hypata, and he was always going to enjoy the hide-and-seek -life of pretending to be a man in flannel trousers. But as his own keenness to learn English defeated his attempts to misunderstand me, we had to have a show-down.

I wanted him to go back. I promised an expedition to rescue bis race from their self-imposed imprisonment. I convinced him that they would run no more risk of slaughter than he had. He believed that modem men would be more than merciful, more even than benevolent, but he ju; t would not co-operate. He said at last

that he hated .them, and their Patriarch, his own father, most of all. His mother was dead, and he unfilially stated he had never liked her. He had no brothers or sisters. He had no friends. And he was glad of it. He admitted that the destmction of one tunnel-mouth would not cut his people off from the world, but he refused to show me others.

H e WAS going with me, he said, wherever I went. He was going to see the modern world.

Even in flannel trousers he could not hide those legs. They were comic, they were tragic, in trousers. They -bent the wrong way!

A naked centaur might be beautiful, even awesome; a centaur in trousers was below the waist a figure of fun or of pity.

And the weather was getting too hot for comfort. I was supposed to go home. Indeed, I had to go home, for my affairs needed a little attention and my Scottish house a little care.

I had to go back.

I interviewed Peter, and the interview was short. Peter would obey me and not even whisper about my centaur, but look after him, feed him, hide him, protect him in my absence, Peter would not do for all the money in Athens.

Then I had a telegram from my old fool of a family solicitor who ought to have been able to do by himself what I paid him to see to instead of me.

I had to go.

And I found Td drifted into an absurd affection for Charles.

He was so gay and so amusing, and so utterly selfish and imprudent. He was so intelligent and quick. He could by then even read and write English. His comments on what he read enthralled me. Imagine them — ! No proverbial hen with one chick was such a fool as I.

"Very well,” I said, "you’ll have to come

THE IMPOSSIBLE ADVENTURE


to Scotland with me. And if you don’t do exactly everything I tell you, down to the smallest detail, I’ll kill you!”

"You will kill me?” said Charles. "My dear, kind David, you could not kill me; I am strong, and young. And you will not want to. I will be so good and quiet. I will never disgrace you.”

So far, so good. Obviously, by disguising Charles as an invalid, I could get him down to the coast, and as an invalid I could get him to Scotland without any tiresome questions being asked. But there are more things than tickets to buy when one goes from one country to another in these days. A passport for Charles was the next thing.

The methods by which undesirable persons can get passports have bothered the police of every country for many years, and I have (when I thought about it) inveighed against the scoundrelly underground traffic as sincerely as any other respectable citizen. Yet without the help of that underworld I do not know what I should have done.

Since some sort of passport must have been obtained, or I could never have got Charles out of Greece, there is no point in pretending that I did not get it. It was expensive. It purported to have been signed by Curzon of Kedlestone. It carried Charles’ photograph — just head and shoulders — and it had an array of past visas that would have deceived the devil himself.

Even if I’m prosecuted, I, shall not betray the source from whence it came, because the job was well done. But I wish I had that passport still, even if it were evidence against me.

During my inevitable absence in contriving this international crime, Charles (now Charles Mountain, according to that same passport) behaved with perfect circumspection under the eye of Peter, and when I returned feeling like a criminal —

an international crook — ^lie just said; "Now we can go?”

E WENT. - ^

The journey was uneventful, but very tiring for me. I had to see that Charles spoke as little as possible, for his accent naturally was far from perfect. We decided he should always speak in a whisper when he had officially to speak, on account of some unspecified injury to his throat. Really he was very good. He allowed himself to be wheeled about-^always — on the boat that took us to Marseilles, and if he did make a little noise in our cabin, I was always prepared to take the blame.

I must have been over-anxious, for nobody complained. Such a handsome young man could not help attracting some attention, even in my rather shabby coats and caps and so on, and there was one young woman on that French boat who showed a very undesirable interest in him that Charles might have encouraged. But, as I say, he was very good — and I really did not give him a chance; when I was about — and I was always about — he resigned himself to the role of invalid. I told the few acquaintances I could not help picking up that he was my nephew who had been gravely injured in a motor smash.

Once across France, once across the Channel, I had no more worry over his passport. Really it was so good that nobody could question it. In Marseilles I bought him clothes. I could not bear him to be so shabby as my old things made him, so we reached Scotland without the least incident, though the journey was terribly expensive. Special carriages, stretchers, ambulances almost ruined me. But he had to go flat on his back.

My house in Caithness is not marvellous. I know it needs modernizing in halfa-dozen ways. But it has one advantage: Robert Macdonald and his wife, who



looked after it in my father’s time as well as mine, are absolutely reliable.

They have never, I know, approved of my journeys abroad, but tliey are utterly faithful, and the first thing I did w'hen we had arrived and the ambulance men had gone away was to call old Robert into my study.

I made him sit dowm, and I said to him:

"My guest, Robert, is no ordinary man. I may as well tell you now as later. He is a dcmi-god.”

"And what heathen tiling may that be, sir?”

"He is a centaur. He is a man — not yet a Qiristian, maybe, but a man. Only his legs are not a man’s legs. Now he is to stay here until I can decide what is to be done. You must look after him, and I rely on you not to talk. And I rely on you that Elspeth doesn’t talk either.”

"Elspeth won’t talk. But what’s wrong with his legs? And what’s a demi-god — • what heathen tiling have you brought?”

"I have brought here,” I said, "a centaur. His legs are horse’s legs.”

"Indeed,” said Robert.

“You can see him,” I said.

I took him into the Jacobite room.

“Get up, Charles,” I said. “This is Robert Macdonald who will look after you. No need to fear him! he served my father before me.” And Charles stood up and held out his hand.

"Good-day,” said Charles in his funny accent.

But Robert Macdonald crossed himself, and then he bowed. “In this house, sir,” he said, "you have nothing to fear,” and he turned to me. "I served your fatherbefore you, and my father did so before me. I do not know what this means, but there’ll be no talking.”

And then he went out.

And then I knew my worry was only just beginning.

T’M a coward, I suppose; at least a procrastinator. No need to do anything at once. That day, and next day, and tlie day after I was safe — we were safe. I needn’t think immediately in that remote house w-here nobody would come that I didn’t want to see. Time enough to decide W'hen — when I liad to.

Old Elspeth fell for Charles at once — as definitely, though dourly, as tlie pretty girl on the French boat. She gave us her best cooking, she waited on Charles hand and foot. She began to hint I was cruel to the poor wean in keeping him locked up, as she described it.

For his part, Charles was far too interested in his new surroundings to regard himself as a prisoner. With Robert’s connivance I got rid of the only gardener, and he could get some exercise in the grounds. But most of the time he spent in the library and making me explain what he read of a world he still could not quite believe in.

Charles was never bored — and I was not, for I saw with every hour that I must make up my mind to do sometliing. Even if we were not discovered by some mischance, the day was bound to come when I should have to betray Charles to the world. I could not bear to tliink that my beautiful, amusing, incredible Charles might be photographed and placarded as a monster. It would have killed him.

I’d settled matters with my old fool of a solicitor by letters and expensive trunk telephone calls, and that meant my family would know I w'as back from Greece. There is no defense from a family solicitor, especially a stupid one.

I was actually planning a disguise for Charles, artificial feet to be made by some bribed craftsman under the direction of a reliable orthopaedist, when I got a telegram from my great-niece, Barbara, to say she had heard I was back and she proposed to come and stay witli me for a week.

THE IMPOSSIBLE ADVENTURE


Barbara never writes letters, and fortunately for her she has enough money to make her telegrams long. She was coming to stay with me because she had broken her engagement with John (who was John? ) and she felt the pure air of Caithness would cure her wounded heart. Or words to that effect.

It was nearly lunch-time when I got that telegram, and the aged Angus who obliges now and then by carrying telegrams from the local post-office admitted he hsid loitered by the way. Loitering to him, meant anything you like in hours or days.

To cut a long and agonizing story short, I had hardly collected Charles from the orchard and hurried him indoors when she arrived.

I knew — I knew then that the game was up. ■

Barbara Schofield — ^my late wife’s greatniece, actually — is very pretty. At least I think so. I’m not too old to admire pretty women, I hope. Her hair really is Titian red, and her eyes really are dark blue, with dark lashes. She’s far too pretty to be happy, for only a plain w'oman can be sure of a faithful husband, and only a poor woman can even hope for one.

Barbara is rich, poor child, and critical and intelligent. Poor child.

I had an invalid staying with me, I told her, the son of a very old friend of mine who had been grievously injured in a motor accident in Greece. The young man, indeed, was half Greek, and his English mother had died in bringing him into the world. The m.otor accident had caused a spinal injury which could only be cured by rest and quiet.

B arbara was all agog to see him.

She had taken a course of nursing. She would look after him.

"That’s just what you can’t do,” I told her. "The Macdonalds do all the looking after he requires. But you can see him and read to him and maybe improve his English — ^he’s very keen on getting better with his mother-tongue— and cheer the poor boy up. Yes,” I said, "it will be a distraction to you, too, during yous. short stay here, and it will maybe take your mind off this John of yours. Who is John, by the way? I can’t imagine any young man you had a fancy for letting you go.”

"We won’t talk about John, Uncle David, if you don’t mind,” she said. "John is nothing more to me than a reminder that I can be just as much a fool as any other woman. And I thought I was wise.

"But what do you mean by a short visit? Don’t you generally spend the summer up here? I’m going to stay a month at least.”

"A month?” I said.

"Don’t you want me to stay. Uncle David?”

"My dear,” I said, "my dear — ^you know you’re welcome for ever, but an old man with an invalid in the house, in this remote place isn’t an interesting proposition for anything as pretty as you.”

“Uncle David, I was twenty-one last week — though you never sent me a birthday present — and I’ve come here for a rest-cure. You’re not going to turn me out just because there’s an invalid who takes up Elspeth Macdonald’s time? I’ll make my own bed, and I can cook.”

"Do you know Greek?” I asked her.

"Now, Uncle David, you know I never went to Girton or to Oxford. If he speaks Greek and he doesn’t speak French, I shall have to speak to him in English — . Uncle David, did you say 'thank God’?”

"I said nothing of the kind, but it’s best for you to speak English to the poor boy, for that’s the best way to improve his English — andffie’s very sensitive about not being very good yet with his mother’s tongue.”

"What’s the name of this young man?”



"Charles Mountain — Mountain was his mother’s maiden name, and he is adopting it by deed-poll, for he wants to get naturalized. Now go and tidy yourself for lunch, and after lunch you shall be introduced.”

Then I talked to Charles. I told him to be careful. I warned him not to give himself away. I reminded him that we had not yet decided just how to introduce him to the modern world. He promised to be good, but his eyes were sparkling with excitement. He was terribly good-looking.

At luncla Barbara pestered me with questions, and the less I answered them the more curious she grew. After lunch I took her up to Charles’ room. He was sv/athed in blankets and rugs in his wheeled cliair.

They stared at each other. Good Heavens, how they stared at each other! I could see what had happened. In a moment she had forgotten John — ^whoever John might have been. Charles perhaps had nothing to forget—

When I got her away my Charles was on fire. When I saw her later, Charles was all she would talk about.

SUPPOSE I knew then that the situation was hopeless. If there is such a thing as love at first sight it had happened then under my roof.

Every day Barbara would spend her time talking to and reading to Charles. Whenever she was out of his room I was warning him and prompting him what to say about himself, his English mother and his Greek father.

The unfortunate creature, you see, actually knew far less about modern Greece than I did.

I had to describe Athens to him, Sparta, Olympus, Crete. I had to promise that I would find a way of telling Barbara the truth. I tried to convince him of the absurdity of loving a modern English girl. I tried to re-open the possibility

of collecting an expedition to rescue his nation.

And tire implacable Macdonald warned me that there was tragedy all about us.

"Why will you not get her away?” he asked me every morning. "She must go,” he said. "You can see how it is with them. It can’t go on. It’s wicked and heathen and uncliristian.” He crossed himself as he always did when we discussed Charles. "The poor creature’s not to blame. But you’ll be to blame, ye’ll have blood on your hands if the young lady doesn’t leave.”

Barbara didn’t leave.

Then, too, there was the question of exercise for Charles. A youth of his age, fit and well, cannot spend his life in an invalid cliair. It was Macdonald who suggested midnight exercise, and midnight exercise it had to be, when Barbara was in bed and asleep. But I believe it took years off my life, the arranging of midnight runs and midnight exercise — and then trying to be normal and awake next day. Charles of course could sleep as an invalid should. I had no excuse for falling asleep whenever I sat down in a chair.

And all the time I could not think of a way to tell Barbara the truth about Charles, and Charles was beginning to get a look in his eyes that scared me.

And Barbara simply ceased to consider any date of going home or away anywhere else.

Well, I suppose the end was inevitable, but if I had ever had any luck it need not have been quite so dramatic.

I could not watch over Charles’ midnight exercise indefinitely — I’m not a young man any longer. It was late summer and the weather was fine and tire moon was full, when it all happened. Elspeth Macdonald was ill, and her obstinate old husband insisted on staying with her.

Now Charles was generally most abTHE IMPOSSIBLE ADVENTURE

stemious. I’d naturally as we were in Scotland introduced him to whiskey in moderation. That night, finding himself alone when he got up, for some reason he must have got drunk.

I was awakened by wild singing— chanting is perhaps the right word. There is a stone terrace on the garden side of the house where most of the bedrooms look out. I listened half asleep for a minute or two and then with dread in my heart I leapt out of bed and rushed to the window.

There on the terrace was Charles, capering like a ballet-dancer, his hoofs clattering, and chanting a dirge-like chant in his nameless language. Naked as the day Peter and I found him, the sight did not seem to me so much indecent as terrifying— beauty and grace and animalism and despair.

I said that most of the bedrooms were on that side of the house. Barbara’s room was one of them.

Then I heard her screaming.

Now I am an elderly man, unused to alarms, and my nerves had been tried pretty high. When I heard the chanting and the screaming, only the frenzied haste with which I dressed saved me, I think, from fainting — and the clatter and the singing and the cries went on,

I found Barbara half out of her open window, crying and sobbing and calling to Charles, and he took no notice of her and went on dancing and went on singing.

Remember, I was alone that night. How I got some clothes on her, how I dragged her out by the front of the house I shall never quite remember, but by the

time Td got her into the. car she was in a state of collapse. I drove her to the doctor’s, knocked him up, told him some frantic story of burglars, ghosts and nightmares, and he gave her an injection and let her stay — and let me stay — until morning.

Thank God he did.

11 /fY HOUSE — ^most of it — was burned down that night, and Charles was burned in it. Macdonald and I buried what was left of him, but that was after Barbara, white and silent, had left for the South, borrowing money from the doctor for her fare.

She never asked me to forward her belongings. She never mentioned Charles to me. She never asked any questions. I never saw or spoke to her again.

But I heard she’d taken up flying, and the poor child killed herself when her plane crashed in the Mediterranean in the following year. I’ve always wondered if she was trying to fly to Greece.

F irst the illegal passport, then the unreported death and burial — I still dare not make an official report. But the above is a brief, skeleton summary of the facts.

NOTE: The house was damaged but by no means destroyed. My old uncle patched it up before he died. Unless tlie whole property is dug up I don’t see how I can find the Centaur’s grave. Nobody seems to be sure whether or not David Gannon had an invalid visitor just before the fire. And the Macdonalds simply will not speak. But their very silence makes me think there is some truth somewhere in this incredible affair. I may take my time but I shall probably do something, find out something definite in the end.

H. T. W. B.

UPERSTiflONS

'Nfi-ilNG OALT PROVOKES BAD LUCK UNLESS A PINCH OF IT IS THROWN OVER THE JHOULDER THREE TIMES.

Salt was used m religious services^ ahd perhaps for ’

THIS REASON IT RECEIVED SPECIAL RECOGNITION IN FORMER DAUS YYHEN TO EAT SALT WITH AWyONE CEMENTED FRIENDSHIPS AND EVEN TERMINATED DEATHLU FEUDS. At ONE TIME, ALSO, IT WAS VALUED ALMOST AS MUCH AS GOLD, AND SOLDIERS, OFFICIALS AND WORKING PEOPLE IN GREECE AND ROME RECEIVED ALL OR PART OF THEIR PAU IN SALT. From this custom of PAUING with SALT ALSO COMES - THE POPULAR PHRASE, ’’TO EARN ONE'S SALT"...


' SIGHT OF A riAGWE IS UNLUCKV) UMLES5 / you SPIT IN youR hat /

THE MAGPIE WAS A * k SACRED BIRD IM FORMER ^ DAyS, AND WAS SUPPOSED REPRESENT THE CREATION OF ^ n} ^ DAW AND NIGHT.

A 2#AWn HI THE PRESENCE OF A ^IlHDOO WILL CAUSE HIM TO SNAP HIS THUMBS, IN THE BELIEF THAT THIS WILL HINDER THE SOUL FROM LEAVING THE . BODW By _

ISSUING

THROUGH THE/^W^^ OPEN MOUTH /


“He half glimpsed a great bleached thing that set him trembling.”

By Z. B. BISHOP

A shuddery tde of a world so devilish and old that men refused even to speak of it — by the author of "The Curse of Yig "

A FTER ten years I have been able / \ neither to forget nor explain the jL phenomena which, as a scientist, I should like to dismiss as a hallucination. I am an ethnologist, whose specialty is the origin of the various Indian cultures. As a sort of hobby I frequently combine my regular research with tracking down super98

stitions which the white men have inherited from their red neighbors.

My hobby naturally aroused my interest in the mound superstitions of Oklahoma, where my work had often taken me. I had seen many of these vast, lonely, artificial-looking mounds in the western part of the state; and in 1928, during a brief

THE MOUND


lull in my work, I decided to investigate the oldest and most common of the mound legends, a local and distinctive tale which, though really old, was wholly new to the outside world of research. There was an added thrill in the fact that it came from the remote town of Binger, in Caddo County, a place I had long known as the scene of a very terrible and partly inexplicable occurrence connected with the old snake-god myth.

The tale, outwardly, was an extremely naive and simple one, and centered in a huge, lone mound or small hill that rose above the plain about a third of a mile west of the village, a mound which some thought a product of nature, but which others believed to be a burial-place or ceremonial dais constructed by prehistoric tribes. This mound, the villagers said, was haunted by two Indian figures that appeared in alternation; an old man who paced back and forth along the top from dawn till dusk, regardless of the weather and with only brief intervals of disappearance, and a squaw who took his place at night with a blue-flamed torch that glimmered continuously till morning. When the moon was bright, the squaw’s peculiar figure could be seen fairly plainly, and

over half the villagers agreed that the apparition was headless.

This and minor variant versions seemed to have been current ever since the settlement of the Wichita country in 1889; and were, I was told, sustained to an astonishing degree by still-existing phenomena which anyone might observe for himself.

Eager to see what bizarre wonders might be lurking in this small, obscure village so far from the searchlight of scientific knowledge, I went to Binger in the late summer of 1928, arriving at twilight, with a feeling of being cut off from wholesome and everyday things. The station platform was filled witli curious loafers, all of whom seemed eager to direct me



when I asked for the man to whom I had letters of introduction. I was ushered along a commonplace main street whose rutted surface was red with the sandstone soil of the country, and finally delivered at the door of my prospective host. Those who had arranged things for me had done well, for Clyde Compton was a man of high intelligence and local responsibility. His mother, who lived with him and was familiarly known as "Grandma Compton,” was of the pioneer generation, and a mine of anecdote and folklore.

That evening the Comptons summed up for me all the legends current among the villagers. The ghosts, it seems, were accepted almost as a matter of course by everyone in Binger. Two generations had been born and reared within sight of that queer, lone tumulus and its restless figures. The neighborhood of the mound was naturally feared and shunned, so that the village and the farms had not spread toward it in all the four decades of settlement; yet venturesome individuals had several times visited it. •

Some had come back to report that they saw no ghosts at all when they neared the dreaded hill; that somehow the lone sentinel had stepped out of sight before they reached the spot, leaving them free to climb the steep slope and explore the flat summit. There was nothing up there, they said— merely a rough expanse of underbrush.

W HERE the Indian watcher could have vanished to, they had no idea. He must, they reflected, have descended the slope and somehow managed to escape unseen along the plain; although there was no convenient cover within sight. At any ■rate, there did not appear to be any opening into the mound; a conclusion which was reached after considerable exploration of the shrubbery and tall grass on all sides, m a few cases some of the more sensitive

searchers declared that they felt a sort of invisible restraining presence; but they could describe nothing more definite than that. It was simply as if the air thickened against them in the direction they wished to move.

But it was not from the tales of these sane, observant seekers that the chief terror of the ghost-mound sprang; indeed, had their experience been typical, the phenomenon would have bulked far less prominently in the local legendry. The most evil thing was the fact that many seekers had come back impaired in mind and body. Others had not come back at all.

The first of these cases had occurred in 1891, when a young man named Heaton had gone with a shovel to see what secrets he could unearth. He had resolved to get to the bottom of the mystery, and watchers from the village saw him hacking diligently at the shrubbery atop the mound. Then they saw his figure melt slowly into invisibility, not to reappear for long hours, till after the dusk drew on, and the torch of the headless squaw glimmered on the distant elevation.

About two iiours after nightfall he staggered into the village and burst into a shrieking monolog of disconnected ravings. He howled of shocking abysses and monsters, of terrible carvings and statues, of inhuman captors and grotesque tortures.

"Old! Old! Old!” he moaned over and over. “Great God, they . are older than the earth. They know what you think, and make you know what they think — they’re half man, half ghost — crossed the line — melt and take shape again — everything made of gold — monstrous animals, half human — dead slaves — madness — that white man — oh, my God, what they did to him! . .

Heaton was the village idiot for about eight years until he died. Since his ordeal,

THE MOUND


there had been two more cases of moundmadness, and eight of total disappearance. Immediately after Heaton’s mad return, three determined men had gone out to the lone hill together, heavily armed, and with spades and pickaxes. Watching villagers saw the Indian ghost melt away as the explorers drew near, and afterward saw the men climb the mound and begin scouting around through the underbrush. They were never seen again.

Only when the incidents of 1891 were largely forgotten did anybody dare to tliink of further explorations. Then, in 1910, a youth not old. enough to recall the horrors made a trip to tlie shunned spot and found nothing at all.

By 1915 the acute dread and wild legendry of ’91 had largely faded into the commonplace and unimaginative ghost-tales at present surviving — that is, had so faded among the white people. On the nearby reservation were old Indians who thought much and kept their own counsel. About this time a second wave of active curiosity and adventuring developed, and several bold searchers made the trip to the mound and returned. Then came a trip of two Eastern visitors with spades and other apparatus: a pair of amateur archeologists connected with a small college, who had been making studies among the Indians. No one watched this trip from the village, but they never came back. The searchingparty that went out after them, among whom was my host Clyde Compton, found nothing whatsoever amiss at the mound.

By 1920, so short is human memory, the mound was almost ,a joke, and the tame story of the murdered squaw began to displace the darker whispers on everybody’s tongue. Then two reckless young brothers — the especially unimaginative and hardboiled Clay boys — decided to dig up the buried squaw and the gold for which the old Indian had murdered her.

They went out on a September afternoon, about the time the Indian tom-toms begin their incessant annual beating over the flat, red-dusty plains. Nobody watched them, and their parents did not become worried at their failure to return for several hours. Then came an alarm and a searching-party, and another resignation to the mystery of silence and doubt.

Later one of them came back. It was Ed, the elder, and his straw-colored hair and beard had turned white. On his forehead was a queer scar like a branded hieroglyphic. Three months after he and his brother. Walker, had vanished, he skulked into his house at night, wearing nothing but a queerly patterned blanket which he thrust into the fire as soon as he had got into a suit of his own clothes.

He told his parents that he and Walker had been captured by some strange Indians, not Wichitas or Caddos, and held prisoners somewhere toward the west. Walker had died under torture, but Ed had managed to escape. The experience had been so horrible he could not talk about it. He must rest, and anyway, it woxold do no good to give an alarm and try to find and punish the Indians. They were not of a sort that could be caught or punished.

T)EFORE he climbed the rickety flight to his room Ed took a pad and pencil from the living-room table, and an automatic pistol from his father’s desk drawer. Three hours later Ed Clay put a bullet through his right temple. He left a sparsely written sheet of paper on the rickety table near his bed. He had, it later appeared from the whittled pencilstub and stove full of charred paper, originally written much more; but had finally decided not to tell what he knew beyond vague hints. The surviving fragment was only a mad warning scrawled in a curiously backhanded script — ^the ravings of a mind obviously deranged by hard102


ships — and it read thus: rather surprisingly for the utterance of one who had always been stolid and matter-of-fact:

For gods sake never go nere that mound it is part of some kind of a world so devilish and old it cannot be spoke about me and Walker went and was took into the thing just melted at times and made up agen and the whole world outside is helpless alongside of what they can do — ^they what live forever young as they like and you cant tell if they are really men or just gostes — and what they do cant be spoke about and this is only 1 entrance — you cant tell how big the whole thing is — after what we seen I dont want to liwe aney more France was notliing besides this — and see that people always keep away o god they wood if they see poor walker like he was in the end.

Yrs truely

Ed Clay

At the autopsy it was found that all of young Qay’s organs were transposed from right to left within his body, as if he had been turned inside out. Whether they had always been so, no one could say at the time, but it was later learned from army records that Ed had been perfectly normal when mustered out of the service in May, 1919.

That was the end of the explorations of the mound. In the eight intervening years no one had been near the place, and few indeed had cared even to level a spyglass at it. The thing was accepted at face value as a mystery not to be probed, and by common consent the village shunned the subject. '

It was very late, and Grandma Compton had long since gone upstairs to bed, when Clyde finished telling me this. I hardly knew what to think of the frightful puzzle, yet rebelled at any notion in conflict with sane materialism. Compton motioned me to follow him outdoors. We stepped from the frame house to the quiet side street, and walked a few paces in the light of a waning August moon to where the houses were thinner. As I looked out over the vast expanse of earth and sky in the direction Compton pointed, I saw a spark

that was not a star — a bluish spark that moved and glimmered against the Milky Way near the horizon. In another moment it was clear that this spark came from the top of a long, distant rise in the outspread and faintly-litten plain; and I turned to Compton with a question.

“Yes,” he answered, "it’s the blue ghost-light — and that is the mound. There’s not a night in history that we haven’t seen it — and not a living soul in Binger that would walk out over that plain toward it. It’s a bad business, young man, and if you’re wise you’ll let it rest where it is. Better call your search off, son, and tackle some of tihe other Injun legends around here.”


"OUT I was in no mood for advice; and though Compton gave me a pleasant room, I could not sleep, through eagerness for the next morning with its chances to see the daytime ghost. I rose and dressed at dawn, and when I heard others stirring I went downstairs. Compton was building the kitchen fire while his mother was busy in the pantry.

After breakfast he lit his pipe, helped me collect my things and beckoned me to follow him. As we walked along the lane I stared at the mound, far away and very curious in its aspect of artificial regularity. It must have been from thirty to forty feet high, and at least a hundred yards from north to south. It was not as wide as that from east to west, Compton said, but had the contour of a rather thinnish ellipse. He, I knew, had been safely out to it and back several times. My pulse mounted, and I seized quickly on the highpowered binoculars which Compton quietly offered me. Focussing them hastily, I saw at first only a tangle of underbrush on the distant mound’s rim — and then something stalked into the field.

THE MOUND


It was unmistakably a human shape, and I knew at once that I was seeing the daytime "Indian ghost.” I did not wonder at the description, for surely the tall, lean, darkly robed being with the filleted black hair and seamed, coppery, expressionless, aquiline face looked more like an Indian than anything else in my previous experience. And yet my trained ethnologist’s eye told me at once that this was no redskin of any sort hitherto known to history, but a creature of vast racial variation and of a wholly different culture-stream. Modern Indians are bracdiycephalic; roundheaded: and you can’t find any dolichocephalic or long-headed skulls except in ancient Pueblo deposits dating back 2500 years or more; yet this man’s long-headedness was so pronounced that I recognized it at once, even at tliis vast distance and in the uncertain field of the binoculars. I saw, too, that the pattern of his robe represented a decorative tradition utterly remote from anything we recognize in southwestern native art.

As he paced back and forth along the top of the mound I followed him for several minutes with the glass, noting the kinesthetic quality of his stride and the poised way he carried' his head; and there was borne in upon me the strong, persistent conviction that this man, whoever or whatever he might be, was certainly not a savage. He was the product of a civilization.

Compton left me when we drew near the mound. We shook hands and I tried to joke about the ghost, but Compton didn’t smile. When I reached the mound I turned and watched his bent form shuffling homeward.

There were no signs of a path toward the top; and, burdened as I was, I managed to scramble up only with considerable difficulty. When I reached the summit I found a roughly level elliptical plateau about three hundred by fifty feet in dimensions, uniformly covered with rank grass and dense underbrush, and utterly incompatible with the constant presence of a pacing sentinel. 'This condition gave me a real shock, for it showed beyond question that the "Old Indian,” vivid though he had seemed, could not be other than .a hallucination.

I looked about with considerable perplexity and alarm, glancing wistfully back at the village and the mass of black dots which I knew was the watching crowd. Training my glasses upon them, I saw that they were studying me avidly with their glasses; so to reassure them I waved my cap in the air with a show of jauntiness which I was far from feeling. Then, settling to my work I flung down pick, shovel, and bag, using my machete to clear away underbrush. It was a weary task, and now and then I felt a curious shiver as some perverse gust of wind arose to hamper my motion with a skill approaching deliberateness.

As I turned up the soil with my trenchknife I could not help wondering at the relative thinness of the reddish regional layer. The country as a whole was all red sandstone earth, but here I found a strange black loom less than a foot down. It was such soil as one finds in tire strange, deep valleys farther west and south, and must surely have been brought from a considerable distance in the prehistoric age when the mound was reared.

Kneeling and digging, I felt my implements strike a hard surface, and wondered if a rock layer rested beneath. Prying about with the trench-knife, I found that sucli was not the case. Instead, to my intense surprise and feverish interest, I brought up a mold-clogged, heavy object of cylindrical shape, about a foot long and four inches in diameter.

S I'TTING down, I cleaned the magnetic cylinder against the rough corduroy



of my knickerbockers. The carvings and chasings were horrible, nameless monsters and designs fraught with insidious evil; and all were of the highest finish and craftsmanship. I could not at first make head or tail of the thing, and handled it aimlessly until I spied a cleavage near one end. Then I sought eagerly for some mode of opening, discovering at last that the end simply unscrewed.

The cap yielded with difficulty, but at last it came off, liberating a curious aromatic odor. The sole contents was a bulky roll of a yellowish, paper-like substance inscribed in greenish characters, and for a second I had the supreme thrill of fancying that I held a written key to unknown elder worlds and abysses beyond time. Almost immediately, however, the unrolling of one end showed that the manuscript was in Spanish — the formal, pompous Spanish of a long-departed day. In the sunset light I looked at the heading and the opening paragraph, trying to decipher the wretched and ill-punctuated script of the vanished writer.

The yellow scroll with the green script began with a bold, identifying caption and a ceremoniously desperate appeal for belief in incredible revelations to follow:

RELACION DE PANFILO DE ZAMACONA Y NUNEZ, HIDALGO DE LUARCA EN ASTURIAS, TOCANTE AL MUNDO SOTERRANEO DE XINAIAN. A.D. MDXLV

En el nombre de la santisima Trinidad, Padre, Hijo, y Espiritu-Santo, tres personas distintas y un solo. Dios verdadero, y de la santisima Virgen nuestra Senora, YO, PANFILO DE ZAMACONA, HIJO DE PEDRO GUZMAN Y ZAMACONA, HIDALGO, Y DE LA DONA YNES ALVARADO Y NUNEZ, DE LUARCA EN ASTURIAS, juro para que todo que deco esta verdadero como Sacramento. . . .

I paused to reflect on the portentous significance of. what I was reading. "The Narrative of Panfilo de Zamacona y Unex, gentleman, of Luarca in Asturias, Concerning the Subterranean World of

Xinaian, A.D. 1545.” Here, surely, was too much for any mind to absorb all at once. A subterranean world — again that persistent idea which filtered through all the Indian tales and through all the utterances of those who had come back from the mound. And the date, 1545 — what could this mean? In 1540 Coronado and his men had gone north from Mexico into the wilderness, but had they not turned back in 1542?

My eye ran questingly down the opened part of the scroll, and almost at once seized on the name Francisco Vasquez de Coronado. The writer of this thing, clearly, was one of Coronado’s men, but what had he been doing in this remote realm three years after his party had gone back? I must read further, for another glance told me that what was now unrolled was merely a summary of Coronado’s northward march, differing in no essential way from the account known to history.

It was only the waning light which checked me before I could unroll and read more, and in my impatient bafflement I almost forgot to be frightened at the onrush of night in this sinister place. Others, however, had not forgotten the lurking terror, for I heard a loud distant hallooing from a knot of men who had gathered at the edge of the town. Answering the anxious hail, I restored the manuscript to its strange cylinder. Leaving the pick and shovel for the next day’s work, I took up my hand-bag, scrambled down the steep side of the mound, and in another quarterhour was back in the village explaining and exhibiting my curious find. As darkness drew on, I glanced back at the mound I had so lately left, and saw with a shudder that the faint bluish torch of the nocturnal squaw-ghost had begun to glimmer.

Promising the townsfolk a clear account of my findings in the morning, and giving them ample opportunity to examine the bizarre and provocative cylinder, I accomTHE MOUND

10 ?

panied Clyde Compton home and went up to my room to make the translation. Opening my hand-bag in the light of a single electric bulb, I took out the cylinder. The designs glimmered evilly on the richly lustrous and unknown metal, and I cotild not help shivering as I studied the abnormal and blasphemous forms that leered at me with such exquisite workmanship.

At last I took out the manuscript and began translating — jotting down an outline in English as I went, and now and then regretting the absence of a Spanish dictionary when I came upon some especially obscure or archaic word or construction. There was a sense of ineffable strangeness in thus being thrown back nearly four centuries in the midst of my continuous quest, thrown back to a year when my own forebears were settled, home-keeping gentlemen of Somerset and Devon under Henry the Eighth, with never a thought of the adventure that was to take their blood to Virginia and the New World; yet when that New World possessed, even as now, the same brooding mystery of the mound which formed my present sphere and horizon.


O F HIS youth in Luarca, a small, placid port on the Bay of Biscay, Zamacona told little. He had been wild,’ and a younger son, and had come to New Spain in 1532, when only twenty years old. Sensitively imaginative, he had listened spellbound to the floating rumors of rich cities and unknown worlds to the north. Hearing of Coronado’s contemplated expedition in search of these wonders, and of the greater wonders whispered to lie beyond them in the land of buffaloes, young Zamacona managed to join the picked party of three hundred, and started north with the rest in 1540.

History knows the story of that expedition, how Cibola was found to be merely the squalid Pueblo village of Zuni, and how de Niza was sent back to Mexico in disgrace for his florid exaggerations; how Coronado first saw the Grand Canyon, and how at Cicuye, on the Pecos, he heard from the Indian called El Turco of the rich and mysterious land of Quivira, far to the northeast, where gold, silver, and buffaloes abounded, and where there flowed rivers two leagues wide. Zamacona told briefly of the winter camp at Tiguex on the Pecos, and of the northward start in April, when the native guide proved false and led the party astray amidst a land of prairie-dogs, salt pools, and roving, bison-hunting tribes.

When Coronado dismissed his larger force and made his final forty-two day march with a very small and select detachment, Zamacona managed to be included in the advancing party. He spoke of the fertile country and of the great ravines with trees visible only from the edge of their steep banks; and of how all the men lived solely on buffalo-meat. And then came mention of the expedition’s farthest limit — of the disappointing land of Quivira with its villages of grass houses, its brooks and rivers, its good black soil, its plums, nuts, grapes, and mulberries, and its maize-growing and copper-using Indians. The execution of El Turco, the false native guide, was casually touched upon, and there was a mention of the cross which Coronado raised on the bank of a great river in the autumn of 1541 — a cross bearing the inscription, "Thus far came the great general, Francisco Vasquez de Coronado.”

These northerly natives seemed more reluctant to talk about the rumored cities and worlds than the Mexican Indians had been. Their vagueness exasperated the Spanish leader, but Zamacona, more patient than his chief, found the tales interesting, and he learned enough of the Iccal



speech to hold long conversations with a young buck named Charging Buffalo, whose curiosity had led him into much stranger places than any of his fellowtribesirien had dared to penetrate.

It was Charging Buffalo who told Zamacona of the queer stone gates or cavemouths at the bottom of some of those deep, wooded ravines which the party had noticed on the northward march. These openings, he said, were mostly concealed by shrubbery, and few had entered them for untold eons. Those who went to where they led, never returned — or in a few cases returned mad or curiously maimed. But all this was legend, for. nobody was known to have gone more than a limited distance inside any of them within die memory of the grandfathers of the oldest living men. Charging Buffalo himself had probably been farther than anyone else, and he had seen enough to curb both his curiosity and his greed for the rumored gold below.

Beyond the aperture he had entered there was a long passage running crazily up and down and round about, and covered with frightful carvings of monsters and horrors that no man had ever seen. At last, after untold miles of windings and descents, there was a glow of terrible blue light, and the passage opened upon a shocking nether world. About this the Indian would say no more, for he had seen something that had sent him back in haste.

But the golden cities must be somewhere down there, he added, and perhaps a white man with the magic of the thimderstick might succeed in getting to them. He would not tell the big chief Coronado what he knew, for Coronado would not listen to Indian talk any more. Yes — he could show Zamacona the way if the white man would leave the party and accept his guidance. But we would not go inside the opening with the white man. It was bad in there.

The place was about a five-days’ march to the south, near the region of great mounds.

These mounds had something to do with the evil world down there; they were probably ancient closed-up passages to it, for once the Old Ones below had had colonies on the surface and had traded with men everywhere, even in the lands that had sunk under the big waters. It was when those lands had sunk that the old Ones closed themselves up below and refused to deal with surface people.

The refugees from the sinking places had told them that the gods of outer earth were against men, and that no men could survive on the outer earth unless they were demons in league with the evil gods. That is why they shut out all surface folk, and did fearful things to any who ventured down where they dwelt. There had been sentries once at the various openings, but after ages they were no longer needed. Not many people cared to talk about the hidden Old Ones, and the legends about them would probably have died out but for occasional ghostly reminders of their presence.

f7AMACONA was held spellbound by ^ the Indian’s tale, and at once resolved to accept his guidance to the cryptic doorway in the ravine. He did not believe the accounts of strange ways attributed by legend to the hidden people, for the experiences of the party had been such as to disillusion one regarding native myths of unknown lands; but he did feel that some sufficiently marvelous field of riches and adventure must indeed lie beyond the weirdly carved passages in the earth.

At first he thought of persuading Charging Buffalo to tell his story to Coronado — offering to shield him against any effects of the leader’s testy skepticism — • but later he decided that a lone adventure would be better. If he had no aid, he

THE MOUND


would not have to share anything he found, but might perhaps become a great discoverer and owmer of fabulous riches. Success would make him a greater figure than Coronado himself, perhaps a greater figure than anyone else in New Spain, including even the mighty viceroy Don Antonio de Mendoza.

On October 7, 1541, at an hour close to midnight, Zamacona stole out of the Spanish camp near the grass-house village and met Charging Buffalo for the long southward journey. He traveled as lightly as possible, and did not wear his heavy helmet and breast-plate. Of the details of the trip tlie manuscript told very little, but Zamacona records his arrival at the great ravine on October 13th. The descent of the thickly wooded slope took no great time, and though tire Indian had trouble in locating the shrubbery-hidden stone door again amidst the twilight of that deep gorge, the place was finally found.

It was a very small aperture as doorways go, formed of monolithic sandstone jambs and lintel, and bearing signs of nearly effaced and now undecipherable carvings. Its height was perhaps seven feet, and its width not more than four. There were drilled places in the jambs which argued the bygone presence of a hinged door or gate, but all other traces of such a thing had long since vanished.

At sight of this black gulf. Charging Buffalo displayed considerable fear, and threw down his pack of supplies with signs of haste. He had provided Zamacona with a good stock of resinous torches and provisions, and had guided him honestly and well, but refused to share in the venture that lay ahead. Zamacona gave him the trinkets he had kept for such an occasion, and obtained his promise to return to the region in a month; afterward showing the way southward to tlie Pecos Pueblo villages. A prominent rock on the plain above them was chosen as a meeting-place;

the one arriving first was to pitch camp until the other should arrive.

In the manuscript Zamacona expressed a wistful wonder as to the Indian’s length of waiting at the rendezvous — for he himself could never keep that tryst.

Zamacona felt no immediate premonition of evil upon entering that ominous doorway, tliough from the first he was surrounded by a bizarre and unwholesome atmosphere. The passage, slightly taller and wider than the aperture, was for many yards a level tunnel of Cyclopean masonry, with heavily worn flagstones underfoot, and grotesquely carved granite and sandstone bloclcs in sides and ceiling.

For three days, as best he could reckon, Panfilo de Zamacona scrambled down, up, along, and around, but always predominantly downward, through this dark region of paleogean night. Once in awhile he heard some secret being of darkness patter or flap out of his way, and on just one occasion he half glimpsed a great bleached thing that set him trembling. The quality of the air was mostly endurable, though fetid zones were now and then met with. One great cavern of stalactites and stalagmites afforded a depressing dampness.

At what he considered the end of the third day, Zamacona reached a level passage of artificial masonry with dark, basaltic blocks. There was no need for a torch now, for all the air was glowing with a bluish, quasi-electric radiance. It was the strange light of the inner world that the Indian had described; and in another moment Zamacona emerged from the tunnel upon a bleak, rocky hillside which climbed above him to a seething, impenetrable sky of bluish coruscations, and descended dizzily below him to an apparently illimitable plain shrouded in bluish mist.

He had come to the unknown world at last, and a strange sense of glory filled him, for he had imagination enough to know what it meant to stand alone in an inex108


plicable nether world whose existence no other white man suspected.

S EATING himself for rest and thought, Zamacona lightened his pack by removing an amount of food and torches sufficient to take him back through the tunnel. These he proceeded to cache at the opening, under a cairn hastily formed of the rock fragments which everywhere lay around. Then, readjusting his lightened pack, he commenced his descent toward the distant plain, preparing to invade a region which no white man had ever penetrated, and from which, if legend were to be believed, no organic creature had ever returned whole.

Zamacona strode briskly along down the steep, interminable slope, his progress checked at times by the bad walking that came from loose rock fragments, or by the excessive precipitousness of the grade. The distance of the mist-shrouded plain must have been enormous, for many hours’ walking brought him apparently no closer to it than he had been before.

The rock-strewn nature of the soil gave few opportunities for tracks of any kind, but at one point a rather level interval had caused the loose detritus to accumulate in a ridge, leaving a considerable area of dark-gray loam absolutely bare. Here, in a rambling confusion indicating a large herd aimlessly wandering, Zamacona found abnormal prints,

It is to be regretted that he could not describe them more exactly, but the manuscript displayed far more vague fear than accurate observation. Just what it was that so frightened the Spaniard can only be inferred from his later hints regarding the beasts.

Zamacona finally gave way to weariness and slept beside what seemed to be an ancient road. Next day he rose early and resumed his descent through this world of blue mist and desolation and preternatural

silence. As he advanced, he at last became able to distinguish a few objects on the distant plain below: trees, bushes, rocks, and a small river that came into view from the right and curved forward at a point to the left of his contemplated course. Then he saw a blurred mass moving over the distant plain. He had seen no more of the sinister footprints, but something about that slowly and deliberately moving mass sickened him. Nothing but a herd of grazing animals could move just like that, and after seeing the footprints he did not wish to meet the things which had made them.

The next afternoon, to use the language of the outer world as the manuscript did at all times, Zamacona reached the silent plain and crossed the soundless, slow-running river on a curiously carved and fairly well-preserved bridge of black basalt. The water was clear, and contained large fishes of a wholly strange aspect. At last he came upon a crumbling temple, decorated with nauseous bas-reliefs depicting scenes and beings, objects and ceremonies, which could certainly have no place on this or any sane planet. The door of the place stood open, and absolute darkness filled the windowless interior. Conquering the repulsion which the sculptures had excited, Zamacona took out flint and steel, lighted a resinous torch, pushed aside curtaining vines, and crossed the ominous threshold.

For a moment he was quite stupefied by what he saw. It was not the all-covering dust and cobwebs of immemorial eons, the fluttering winged things, the shriekingly loathsome sculptures on the walls, the bizarre form of the many basins and braziers, the sinister pyramidal altar with the hollow top, or the monstrous, octopusheaded abnormality in some strange, dark metal leering and squatting broodingly on its hieroglyphed pedestal, which robbed him of even the power to give a startled

TP^E MOUND


cry. It was merely the fact that, with the exception of the dust, the cobwebs, the winged things, and the gigantic emeraldeyed idol, every particle of substance in sight was composed of pure and evidently solid gold.

Even the manuscript, written in retrospect after Zamacona knew that gold is the most common structural metal of a nether world containing limitless lodes and veins of it, reflects the frenzied excitement which the traveler felt upon suddenly finding the real source of all the Indian legends of golden cities.

Zamacona’s ecstasy was dispelled by a tremendous wave of fear as, for the first time in this silent world, he heard a rumble of very definite and obviously approacliing sound. There was no mistaking its nature. It was a thunderously charging herd of large animals. He looked about frantically for a refuge in the great, gold-painted interior. He felt he must close the longdisused door, which still hung on its ancient hinges, doubled back against the inner wall.

Soil, vines, and moss had entered the opening from outside, so that he had to dig a path for the great gold portal with his sword; but he managed to perform this work very swiftly under the frightful stimulus of the approaching noise. The hoof-beats had grown still louder and more menacing by the time he began tugging at the heavy door itself, and for awhile his fears reached a frantic height, as hope of starting the age-clogged metal grew faint.

Then, with a creak, the thing responded to his youthful strength, and a frenzied siege of pulling and pushing ensued. Amidst the roar of unseen stampeding feet success came at last, and the ponderous golden door clanged shut, leaving Zamacona in darkness but for the single lighted torch he had wedged between the pillars of a basin-tripod. There was a latch, and

the frightened man blessed his patron saint that it was still effective.

Sound alone told the fugitive the sequel. When the roar grew neat it resolved itself into separate footfalls, as if the evergreen grove had made it necessary for the herd to slacken speed and disperse. But feet continued to approadi, and it became evident that the beasts were advancing among the trees and circling the hideously carven temple walls. The curious deliberateness of their tread Zamacona found alarming and repulsive, nor did he like the scuffling sounds which were audible even through the thick stone walls and heavy golden door. Once the door rattled ominously on its archaic hinges, as if under a heavy impact, but fortunately it still held. Then, after a seemingly endless interval, he heard retreating steps and realized that his unknown visitors were leaving.

Since the herds did not seem to be very numerous, it would perhaps have been safe to venture out within a half-hour or less, but Zamacona took no chances. Opening his pack, he prepared his camp on the golden tiles of the temple’s floor, with the great door still securely latched against all comers; drifting eventually into a sounder sleep than he could have known in the blue spaces outside.


A lthough it was late, I continued my translation of the singular document I had unearthed at the mound. Determined to discover the source of the legend of the ghostly walkers, the old man by day and the apparently headless squaw by night, I plunged deeper into the archaic Spanish manuscript of Panfilo de Zamacona, anxious to find possible clues to the Oklahoma mound legends which this Sixteenth Century Spaniard might reveal. Fascinated by his dramatic accoimt of



the timeless underworld with its gold and strangely horrible footprints, I relighted my pipe and went back to the difficult task of translation.

Zamacona, once the mysterious horde had left him securely locked in the golden temple, slept from exhaustion. What finally roused him was a thunderous rapping at the door. It beat through his dreams and dissolved all the lingering mists of drowsiness as soon as he knew what it was. There could be no mistake about it — it was a definite, human, and peremptory rapping, performed apparently with some metallic object, and with all the measured quality of conscious thought or will behind it. As the awakening man rose clumsily to his feet, a sharp vocal note was added to the summons. Feeling sure that his visitors were men and not demons, and arguing that they could have no reason for considering him an enemy, Zamacona decided to face them openly. He fumbled with the ancient latch till the golden door creaked open from the pressure of those outside.

As the great portal swimg back, Zamacona stood facing a group of about twenty individuals of an aspect not calculated to give him alarm. They seemed to be Indians, though their tasteful robes and trappings and swords were not such as he had seen amorig any of the tribes of the outer world, while their faces had many subtle differences from the Indian type. That they did not mean to be irresponsibly hostile was very clear, for instead of menacing him in any way they merely probed him attentively and significantly with their eyes, as if they expected the gaze to open up some sort of communication.

The longer they gazed, the more he seemed to know about them and their mission, for although no one had spoken since the vocal summons before the opening of the door, he found himself slowly realizing that they had come from the great

city beyond the low hills, mounted on animals, and that they had been summoned byanimals who had reported his presence; that they were not sure what kind of a person he was or just where he had come from, but that they knew he must be associated with that dimly remembered outer world which they sometimes visited in curious dreams. How he read all this in the gaze of the two or three leaders he could not possibly explain, though he learned why a moment later.

As it was, he attempted to address his visitors in the Wichita dialect that he had picked up from Charging Buffalo, and after this' failed to draw a vocal reply he successively tried the Aztec, Spanish, French, and Latin tongues — adding as many scraps of lame Greek, Galician and Portuguese, and of the peasant patois of his native Asturias, as his memory could recall. But not even this polyglot array — his entire linguistic stock — could bring a reply in kind.

■When, however, he paused in perplexity, one of the visitors began speaking in an utterly strange and rather fascinating language whose sounds the Spaniard later had much difficulty in representing on paper. Upon his failure to understand this, the speaker pointed first to his own eyes, then to- his forehead, and then to his eyes again, as if commanding the other to gaze at him in order to absorb what he wished to transmit.

Zamacona, obeying, found himself rapidly in possession of certain information. The people, he learned, conversed by means of soundless radiations of thought, although they had formerly used a spoken language which still survived as the written tongue, and into which they still dropped orally for tradition’s sake, or when strong feeling demanded a spontaneous outlet. He could understand them merely by concentrating his attention upon their eyes, and could r6ply by summoning

THE MOUND


up a mental image of what he wished to say, and throwing the substance of this into his glance.

When the thought-speaker paused, apparently inviting a response, Zamacona tried his best to follow the prescribed pattern, but did not appear to succeed very well. So he nodded, and tried to describe himself and his journey by signs. He pointed upward, as if to the outer world, then closed his eyes and made signs as of a mole burrowing. Then he opened his eyes again and pointed downward, in order to indicate his descent of the great slope. Experimentally he blended a spoken word or two with his gestures; for example, pointing successively to himself and to all of his visitors and saying "aw hornhre," and then pointing to himself alone and very carefully pronouncing his name, Panflo de Zamacona.

B efore this strange conversation was over, a good deal of data had passed in both directions, but Zamacona in particular had learned many things. The underground world, he found, was called "Xinaian," or "K’n-yan,” as it could probably best be represented phonetically to Anglo-Saxon ears. The people of K’n-yan possessed various marvelous abilities. They had conquered the phenomena of old age and death so that they no longer grew feeble or died except through violence or will. They could also regulate the balance between matter and abstract energy, even where the bodies of living organic beings were concerned, by the sheer force of the technically trained will. In other words, with suitable effort a learned man of K’n-yan could dematerialize and rematerialize himself, or, with somewhat greater effort and subtler technique, any other object he chose; reducing solid matter to free external particles and recombining the particles again without damage. Had not Zamacona answered his visitors’ knock

when he did, he would have discovered this accomplishment in a highly puzzling way, for only the strain and bother of the process prevented the twenty men from passing bodily through the golden door without pausing for a summons. This art could be taught to some extent, though never perfectly, to any intelligent person.

The people of K’n-yan all dwelt in the great, tall city of Tsath beyond the mountains. Formerly several races had inhabited the underground world, but the men of Tsath had conquered and enslaved the rest, interbreeding them with certain horned and four-footed animals of the redlitten region. The slave class was by now extensive and highly composite, being bred not only from ancient conquered enemies, but also from outer-world stragglers, from dead bodies curiously galvanized into effectiveness, and from the naturally inferior members of the ruling class. The acts of the slaves were controlled by their masters who gave them hypnotic impressions in the morning of all they were to do during the day. The most mechanical of the slaves were those called the ■fm-hhi, organisms which had died, but which had been mechanically reanimated for industrial purposes by means of atomic energy and thought-power. It was the y’m-hhi who were used for the amusement of the people in the amphitheater, and many of them consequently showed evidences of horrible subtractions, distortions, transpositions, graftings, and even of decapitation. The flesh of a special slave class was the principal meat stock of K’n-yan, and especially of the gyaa-yothn, the great floundering white beasts which so horrified Zamacona that he only hinted at the black fur on their backs, the rudimentary horn on their forehead, and the unmistakable trace of human or anthropoid blood in their flat-nosed, bulging-lipped faces.

In government, Tsath was a kind of semi-anarchical state; habit rather than law



determining the order of things. The race suffered from a paralyzing ennui and decadence, and was interested solely in physical fundamentals and new sensations, desiring only that the mutual encroachments of pleasure-seeking should not cripple the massed life of the community. Family organization and the civil and social distinction of the sexes had long ago perished.

As the conversation continued, Zamacona felt a growing repulsion and alarm ■ — at what was told, at the strange, telepathic manner of telling, and at the inference that he must never return to tell the outer world of the existence of K’nyan and its golden treasures. In fact, the men of Tsath were so displeased to learn that men from Spain and France and England were exploring those parts of the upper world where the passages to K’n-yan lay, that they determined to post sentries once more at all the unblocked passages to the outside world which they could remember. Their decision made Zamacona wish he had never descended to this region of magic and abnormality, but he realized that for the present his policy should be to appear to acquiesce and to furnish his visitors with all the information they might desire. They, on their part, were fascinated by the outer-world data which he managed haltingly to convey.

It was really the first reliable surface information they had had since the refugees straggled back from Atlantis and Lemuria eons before; for all their subsequent emissaries from outside had been members of narrow and local groups without any knowledge of the world at large: Mayas, Toltecs and Aztecs at best, and mostly ignorant tribes of the plains. Zamacona was the first European they had ever seen, and the fact that he was a youth of education and brilliancy made him of still more emphatic value as a source of knowlede.

The long conversation of Zamacona and

his visitors took place in the green-blue twilight of the grove just outside of the temple door. Some of the men reclined on the weeds and moss beside the half-vanished walk, while others, including the Spaniard and the chief spokesman of the Tsath party, sat on the low, monolithic pillars that lined the temple approach. Almost a whole terrestrial day must have been consumed in the colloquy, for Zamacona felt the need of food several time^ and ate from his well-stocked pack while some of the Tsath party went back for provisions to the roadway, where they had left the animals on which they had ridden. At length the leader of the party brought the discourse to a close, and indicated that the time had come to proceed to the city.

There were, he said, several extra beasts in the cavalcade, upon one of which Zamacona could ride. The prospect of mounting one of tliose ominous hybrid entities whose fabled nourishment was so alarming was by no means reassuring to the traveler. There was, moreover, another point about the things which disturbed him greatly; the apparently preternatural intelligenc-e with which some members of the previous day’s roving pack had reported his presence to the men of Tsath and had brought out the present expedition. But Zamacona was not a coward, and followed the men boldly down the weed-grown walk toward the road where the things were stationed.

The party observed Zamacona’s discomfiture and hastened to reassure him as much as possible. The beasts or gyaayothn, they explained, surely were curious things, but were really harmless.

It argues well for the intrepid fiber of those Renaissance Spaniards who conquered half the unknown world, that Panfilo de Zamacona actfially mounted one of the morbid beasts of Tsath and fell into place beside the leader of tlie cavalcade: the man named Gll-Hthaa-Ynn, who had

THE MOUND

in

been most active in the previous exchange of information. It was a repulsive business; but after all, the seat was easy, and the gait of the clumsy gyaa-yoth surprisingly even and regular. No saddle was necessary, and the animal appeared to require no guidance whatever.

W HEN the cavalcade drew near the compact outskirts of Tsath, and well within the shadow of its terrifying towers, Gll-Hthaa-Ynn pointed out a monstrous circular building before which enormous crowds were lined up. This, he indicated, was one of the many amphitheaters where curious sports and sensations were provided for the weary people of K’n-yan. He was about to pause and usher Zamacona inside the vast curved facade, when the Spaniard demurred. This was the first of those friendly clashes of taste which were to convince the people of Tsath that their guest followed strange and narrow standards.

Tsath itself was a network of strange and ancient streets; and despite a growing sense of horror and alienage, Zamacona was enthralled by its intimations of mystery and cosmic wonder. The over awing towers, the monstrous surge, of teeming life through its ornate avenues, the curious carvings on its doorways and windows, the odd vistas glimpsed from balustrated plazas and tiers of titan terraces, and the enveloping gray haze which seemed to press down on the gorge-like streets in low ceiling-fashion, all combined to produce such a sense of adventurous expectancy as he had never known before.

He was taken at once to a council of executives which held forth in a gold-andcopper palace behind a gardened and fountained park, and was for some time subjected to close, friendly questioning in a vaulted hall frescoed with vertiginous arabesques. A daily program was laid down for the visitor, after he was emphatically told he must never think of returning to the upper world. There were to be conversations with persons of learn- • ing in various places, and lessons in many branches of Tsathic lore. Liberal periods of research were allowed for, and all the libraries of K’n-yan both secular and sacred were to be thrown open to him as soon as he might master the written language. Rites and spectacles were to be attended, except when he might especially object, and much time would be left for the enlightened pleasure-seeking and emotional titillation which formed the goal and nucleus of daily life.

A house in the suburbs or an apartment in the city would be assigned him, and he would be initiated into one of the large affection-groups, including many noblewomen of the most extreme and artenhanced beauty, which in latter-day K’n-yan took the place of family units. Several horned gyaa-yothn would be provided for his transportation and errandrunning, and ten living slaves of intact body would serve to conduct his establishment and protect him from thieves and . sadists and religious drgiasts on the public highways.

Upon his choosing an apartment in preference to a suburban villa, Zamacona was dismissed by the executives with great courtesy and ceremony, and was led through several gorgeous streets to a clifflike carven structure of some seventy or eighty floors. Preparations for his arrival had dready been instituted, and in a spacious ground-floor suite of vaulted rooms slaves were busy adjusting hangings and furniture. There were lacquered and inlaid tahorets, velvet and silk recliningcorners and squatting-cushions, and infinite rows of teakwood and ebony pigeonholes with metal cylinders containing some of the manuscripts he was soon to read, standard classics which all urban apartments possessed.



There were windows, but at this shadowy ground-level they were of scant illuminating value. In some of the rooms were elaborate baths, while the kitchen was a maze of technical contrivances. Supplies were brought, Zamacona was told, through the network of underground passages which lay beneath Tsath, and which had once accommodated curious mechanical transports.

Before his inspection was finished, the permanent staff of slaves arrived and were introduced, and shortly afterward there came some half-dozen freemen and noblewomen of his future affection-group, who were to be his companions for several days, contributing what they could to his instruction and amusement. Upon their departure, another party would take their place, and so onward in rotation through a group of about fifty members.


rjlHUS was Panfilo de Zamacona absorbed for four years into the life of the sinister city of Tsath in the blue-litten nether world of K’n-yan. All that he learned and saw and did is dearly not told in his manuscript, for a pious reticence overcame him when he began to write in his native Spanish tongue, and he dared not set down everything. Much he consistently viewed with repulsion, and many things he steadily refrained from seeing or doing or eating. For other things he atoned by frequent countings of the beads of his rosary.

He explored the entire world of K’nyan, induding the deserted machine-cities of the middle period on the gorse-grown plain of Nith, and made one descent into the red-litten world of Yoth to see the Cyclopean ruins. He witnessed prodigies of craft and machinery which left him breathless, and beheld human metamorphoses, dematerializations, rematerializations, and reanimations which made him cross himself again and again. His capacity for astonishment was blunted by the plethora of new marvels which every day brought him.

But the longer he stayed, the more he wished to leave, for the inner life of K’n-yan was based on impulses very plainly outside his radius. As he progressed in historical knowledge, he understood more, but understanding only heightened his distaste. He felt that the people of Tsath were a lost and dangerous race — more dangerous to themselves than they knew — and that their growing frenzy of monotony-warfare and novelty-quest was leading them rapidly toward a precipice of disintegration and utter horror.

As a means of keeping the image of home in mind, he began about this time to make rough drafts of the manuscript relating his adventures; delighting in the loved, old, Spanish words and the familiar letters of the Roman alphabet. Somehow he fancied he might get the manuscript to the outer world, and to make it convincing to his fellows he resolved to enclose it in one of the Tulu-metal cylinders used for saaed archives.

But even while he planned, he had little real hope of ever establishing contact with the earth’s surface. Every known gate, he knew, was guarded by persons and forces that it were better not to oppose. His attempts to escape had not helped matters, for he could now see a growing hostility to the outer world he represented. He hoped that no other European would find his way in, for it was possible that later comers might not fare as well as he.

In the year 1545, as he reckoned it, Zamacona grew hopeful. An opportunity for escape came from an unexpected source: a female of his affection-group who conceived for him a curious individu^ infatuation based on some hereditary memory of the days of monogamous wedlock

THE MOUND

11 ?

in Tsath. Over this female— a noblewoman of moderate beauty and of at least average intelligence, named T’la-yub — Zamacona acquired the most extraordinary influence, finally inducing her to help him in an escape, under the promise that, he would let her accompany him.

Chance proved a great factor in the course of events, for T’la-yub came of a primordial family of gate-lords who had retained oral traditions of at least one passage to the outer world which the mass of people had forgotten.

Zamacona, now working feverishly to get his manuscript into final form in case anything untoward should happen to him, decided to take with him on his outv/ard journey only five beast-loads of unalloyed gold in the form of the small ingots used for minor decorations — enough, he calculated, to make him a personage of imlimited power in his own world.

T’la-yub he would perhaps allow to share his fortune, for she was by no means unattractive; though possibly he would arrange for her sojourn among the plains Indians, since he was not overanxious to preserve links with the manner of life of Tsath. For a wife, of course, he would choose a lady of Spain, or at worst, an Indian princess of normal outer-world descent and a regular and approved past. But for the present T’la-yub must be used as a guide. The manuscript he would carry on his own person, encased in a bookcylinder of the sacred and magnetic Tulumetal.

T he expedition itself is described in the addendum to Zamacona’s manuscript, written later, and in a hand showing signs of nervous strain. He set out after taking the most careful precautions, proceeding as far as possible along the faintly lighted passages beneath the city. Zamacona and T’la-yub, disguised in slaves’ garments, bearing provision-knapsacks, and leading

the five laden beasts on foot, were readily taken for commonplace workers; and they clung as long as possible to the subterranean way, using a long and little-frequented branch which had formerly conducted the mechanical transports to the now ruined suburb of L’thaa.

Amidst the ruins of L’thaa they came to the surface, thereafter passing as rapidly as possible over the deserted, blue-litten plain of Nith toward the Grh-yan range of low hills. There, in the tangled underbrush, T’la-yub found the long-disused entrance to the forgotten tunnel; a thing she had seen but once before — eons in the past. It was hard work getting the laden gyaa-yothn to scrape through the obstructing vines and briars, and one of them displayed a rebelliousness destined to bear dire consequences — bolting away from the patty and loping back toward Tsath on its detestable pads, golden burden and all.

It was nightmare work burrowing by the light of blue-ray torches upward, downward, forward, and upward agdin through a dank, choked tunnel that no foot had trodden since ages before the sinking of Atlantis; and at one point T’la-yub had to practice the fearsome art of dematerialization on herself, Zamacona, and the laden beasts in order to pass a point wholly clogged by shifting earth-strata. It was a terrible experience for Zamacona; for although he had often witnessed dematerialization in others, and even practiced it himself to the extent of dream-projection, he had never been fully subjected to it before. But T’la-yub was skilled in the arts of K’n-yan, and accomplished the double metamorphosis in perfect safety.

At last tliey came to a very narrow place where the natural or only slightly hewn cave-walls gave place to walls of wholly artificial masonry, carved into terrible basreliefs. At this point the passage opened into a prodigious vaulted and circular chamber of human construction, wholly



covered with horrible carvings, and revealing at the farther end an arched passageway with the foot of a flight of steps. T’la-yub knew from family tales that this must be very near the earth’s surface, but she could not tell just how near. Here the party camped for what they meant to be their last rest-period in the subterraneous world.

TT MUST have been hours later that the clank of metal and the padding of beasts’ feet awakened Zamacona and T’layub. An alarm had been given at Tsath by the returning gyaa-yothn which had rebelled at the briar-choked tunnel-entrance, and a swift party of pursuers had come to arrest the fugitives. Resistance ■was clearly useless, and none was offered.

Zamacona and T’la-yub were tried before the three gn’agn of the supreme tribunal in the gold-and-copper palace behind the gardened and fountained park, and the Spaniard was given his liberty because of the vital 9uter-world information he still had to impart. He was told to return to his apartment and to his affection-group, taking up his life as before, and continuing to meet deputations of scholars according to the latest schedule he had been following. No restrictions would be imposed upon him so long as he might remain peacefully in K’n-yan, but it was intimated that such leniency would not be repeated after another attempt at escape.

The fate of T’la-yub was less happy. There being no object in retaining her, and her ancient Tsathic lineage giving her conduct a greater aspect of treason than Zamacona’s, she was ordered to be delivered to the curious diversions of the amphitheater; and afterward, in a somewhat mutilated and half-dematerialized form, to be given the functions of a y’m-bhi or animated corpse-slave and stationed among the sentries guarding the passage whose existence she had betrayed. , . . , ,

Zamacona soon heard, not without many pangs of a regret he could scarcely have anticipated, that poor T’la-yub had emerged from the arena in a headless and otherwise incomplete state, and had been set as an outermost guard upon the mound in which the passage had been found to terminate. She was, he was told, a nightsentinel, whose automatic duty was to warn off. all comers with a torch; sending down reports to a small garrison of twelve dead slave y’m-bhi and six living but partly dematerialized freemen in the vaulted, circular chamber if the approachers did not heed her warning. She worked, he was told, in conjunction with a daysentinel — a living freeman who chose this post in preference to other forms of discipline for certain offenses against the state.

It was now made plain to him, though indirectly, that his own penalty for another escape-attempt would be service as a gate-sentry. It was intimated that he, or parts of him, would be reanimated to guard some inner section of the passage, within sight of others, where his abridged person might serve as a permanent symbol of the rewards of treason. But, his informants always added, it was of course inconceivable that he would ever court such a fate. So long as he remained peaceably in K’n-yan, he would continue , to be a free, privileged and respected personage.

Yet in the end Panfilo de Zamacona did court the fate so direcfully hinted to him. True, he did not really expect to encounter it, but the nervous latter part of his manuscript makes it clear that he was prepared to face its possibility. What gave him a final hope of scathless escape from K’n-yan was his growing mastery of the art of dematerialization. Having studied it for years, and having learned still more from the two instances in which he had been subjected to it, he now felt increasingly able to use it independently and effectively. ’

THE MOUND


Of course he could not bear away any gold, but mere escape was enough. He would, though, dematerialize and carry with him his manuscript in the Tulumetal cylinder, even though it cost additional effort, for this record and proof must reach the outer world at all hazards. He now knew the passage to follow, and if he could thread it in an atom-scattered state, he did not see how any person or force could detect or stop him. The only trouble would be if he failed to maintain his spectral condition at all times. That was the one ever-present peril, as he had learned from his experiments.

For many nights after his ultimate resolution Zamacona prayed to St. Pamphilus and other guardian saints, and counted the beads of his rosary. The last entry in the manuscript — ^which toward the end took the form of a diary more and more — was merely a single sentence; "Es mas tarde de lo que pensaba — tango que marcharme”

. . . "It is later than I thought! I must go.” After that, only silence and conjecture — and such evidence as the presence of the manuscript itself, and what that manuscript could lead to, might provide.


W HEN I looked up from my halfstupefied reading and note-making, the morning sun was high in the heavens. The electric bulb was still burning, but such things of the real world — the modern outer world — were far from my whirling brain. I knew I was in my room at Clyde Compton's at Binger, but upon what monstrous vista had I stimrbled? Was this thing a hoax or a chronicle of madness? If a hoax, was it a jest of the Sixteenth Century or, of today? The manuscript’s age looked appallingly genuine to my not wholly unpractised eyes.

Moreover, what a monstrously exact explanation it gave of all the baffling phenomena of the mound, of the seemingly meaningless and paradoxical actions of diurnal and nocturnal ghosts, and of the queer cases of madness and disappearance! It was even an accursedly plausible explanation, evilly consistent, if one could adopt the incredible. It must be a shocking hoax devised by someone who knew all the lore of the mound. There was even a hint of social satire in the account of that unbelievable nether world of horror and decay. Surely this was the clever forgery of some learned cynic, something like the leaden crosses in New Mexico, which a jester once planted and pretended to discover as a relic of some forgotten Dark- Age colony from Europe.

Upon going down to breakfast I hardly knew what to tell Compton and his mother, as well as the curious callers who had already begun to arrive. Still in a daze, I gave a few points from the notes I had made, mumbling my belief that the thing was a subtle and ingenious fraud left there by some previous explorer of the mound — a belief in which everybody seemed to concur when told of the substance of the manuscript.

When I reached the mound that morning, there was no one in sight. Repeating my upward scramble of the previous day, I was troubled by thoughts of what might lie close at hand, if any miracle, any part of the manuscript were actually half true. In such a case, I could not help reflecting, the hypothetical Spaniard Zamacona must have barely reached the outer world when overtaken by some disaster, perhaps an involuntary rematerialization.

He would naturally, in that event, have been seized by whichever sentry happened to be on duty at the time— either the discredited freeman, or, as a matter of supreme irony, the very T’la-yub who had planned and aided his first attempt at escape, and in the ensuing struggle the cylinder with the manuscript might well have

J18


been dropped on the mound’s summit to be neglected and gradually buried for nearly four centuries.

It was a very real shock which chased this morbid speculation from my head, for upon glancing around the elliptical summit I saw at once that my pick and shovel had been stolen. This was a highly provoking and disconcerting development; bafiling, too, in view of the seeming reluctance of everyone in Binger to visit the mound. Was this reluctance a pretended thing, and had the jokers of the village been chuckling with anticipation of my discomfiture as they solemnly saw me off ten minutes before? I took out my binoculars and scanned the gaping crowd at the edge of the village. No; they did not seem to be looking for any comic climax.

Everything else on the mound was as I had left it: brush cut by my machete, slight, bowl-like depression toward the north end, and the hole I had made with my trench-knife in digging up the cylinder. Deeming it too great a concession to the unknown jokers to return to Binger for another pick and shovel, I resolved to carry out my program as best I could with the machete and trench-knife in my hand-bag; so, extracting these, I set to work excavating the bowl-like depression which my eye had picked as the possible site of a former entrance to the mound. As I proceeded, I felt again tlie suggestion of a sudden wind blowing against me which I had noticed the day before — a suggestion which seemed stronger, and still more reminiscent of unseen, formless, opposing hands laid on my wrists, as I cut deeper and deeper through the root-tangled red soil and reached the exotic black loam beneath.

Then, quite without warning, the black, root-woven earth beneath my feet began to sink craddingly, while I heard a faint sound of sifting, falling matter far below me. I saw that tiie earth was sifting down into some large cavity beneath, so as to

leave a good-sized aperture when the roots that had bound it were gone. A few more hacks of the machete did the trick, and with a parting cave-in and uprush of curiously chill and alien air the last barrier gave way. Under the morning sun yawned a huge opening at least three feet square, and showing the top of a flight of stone steps down which the loose earth of the collapse was still sliding. My quest had come to something at last! With an elation of accomplishment almost overbalancing fear, I replaced the trench-knife and machete in my hand-bag, took out my powerful electric torch, and prepared for a triumphant lone, and utterly rash invasion of the fabulous nether world I had uncovered.

TT WAS difficult getting dov/n the first few steps, both because of the fallen earth which had choked them and because of a singular up-pushing of a cold wind from below. The electric torch showed dank, water-«tained and salt-encrusted walls fashioned of huge basalt blocks, and now and then I thought I descried some trace of carving beneath the nitrous deposits.

My descent became swifter, and I avoided studying the terrible bas-reliefs and intaglios that had unnerved me. All at once I saw an arched opening ahead, and realized that the prodigious staircase had ended at last. But with tliat realization came horror in mounting and magnitude, for before me there yawned a vast vaulted crypt of aU-too-familiar outline — a great circular space answering in every least particular to the carving-lined chamber described in the Zamacona manuscript.

It was indeed the place. There could be no mistake. And if any room for doubt yet remained, that doubt was abolished by what I saw directly across the great vault. It was a second arched opening, commencing a long, narrow passage and having at

THE MOUND


its mouth two huge opposite niches bearing loathsome and totanic images of shockingly familiar pattern.

From this point onward I ask no credence for what I tell — for what I think I saw. It is too unnatural, too monstrous and inaedible, to be any part of sane human experience or objective reality. My torch, though casting a powerful beam ahead, naturally could not furnish any general illumination of the Cyclopean crypt; so I now began moving it about to explore the giant walls little by little. As I did so, I saw to my horror that the space was by no means vacant, but was instead littered with odd furniture and utensils and heaps of packages which bespoke a populous recent occupancy — no nitrous relic of the past, but queerly-shaped objects and supplies in modern, everyday use. As my torch rested on each article or group of articles, however, the distinctness of the outlines soon began to grow blurred, imtil in the end I could scarcely tell whether the things belonged to the realm of matter or to the realm of spirit.

Wild conceits surged through my mind. I thought of the manuscript and what it said about the garrison stationed in this place — twelve dead slave j’m-bhi and six living but partly dematerialized freemen — that was in 1545 — three hundred and eighty-three years ago — What since then? Zamacona had predicted change — subtle disintegration — more dematerialization — ^weaker and weaker — It occurred to me with shuddering force that I was building my speculations out of a full belief in the Zamacona manuscript — this must not be — I must get a grip on myselfi . . .

But every time I tried to get a grip I saw some fresh sight to shatter my poise still further. This time, just as my willpower was driving the half-seen paraphernalia into obscurity, my glance and torch-beam had to light on two things of

very different nature; two things of the eminently real and sane world which grew more instead of less distinct the longer I looked at them. I say they were of the eminently real and sane world, yet they did more to unseat my shaky reason than anything I had seen before — because I knew what they were, and knew how profoundly, in the course of nature, they ought not to be there. They were my own missing pick and shovel, side by side, and leaning neatly against the blasphemously carved wall of that hellish crypt.

The cursed hypnotism of the manuscript got at me, and I actually saw the halftransparent shapes of the things that were pushing and plucking — those leprous paleogean things with something of humanity still clinging to them — the complete forms, and the forms that were morbidly and perversely incomplete ... all these, and hideous other entities — the fourfooted blasphemies with ape-like face and great projecting horn . . . and not a sound so far in all that nitrous hell of inner earth. . . .

Then there was a sound — a flopping; a padding; a dull, advancing sound which heralded beyond question a being as structurally material as the pickax and the shovel — something wholly unlike the shadow-shapes that ringed me in, yet equally remote from any sort of life as life is understood on the earth’s wholesome surface. My shattered brain tried to prepare me for what was coming, but could not frame any adequate image. I could only say over and over again to myself, "It is of the abyss, but it is not dematetialized.”

The padding grew more distinct, and from the mechanical cast of the tread I knew it was a dead thing that stalked in the darkness. Then — oh, God, I saiu it in the full beam of my torch; sate it framed like a sentinel in the narrow passage. . . .



T ET me collect myself enough to hint at what I saw — to explain why I dropped torch and hand-bag alike and fled empty-handed in the utter blackness, wrapped in a merciful unconsciousness which did not wear off until the sun and the distant yelling and shouting from the village roused me as I lay gasping on the top of the accursed mound. I do not yet know what guided me again to the earth’s surface. I only know that the watchers in Binger saw me stagger up into sight three hours after I had vanished; saw me lurch up and fall flat on the ground as if struck by a bullet. None of them dared to help me; they knew I must be in a bad state, so tried to rouse me by yelling in chorus and firing off revolvers.

It worked in the end, and when I came to I almost rolled down the side of the mound in my eagerness to get away from that black aperture which still yawned open. My torch and tools, and the handbag with the manuscript, were all down there; but it is easy to see why neither I nor anyone else ever went after them. When I had staggered across the plain and into the village I dared not tell what I had seen. I only muttered vague tilings about carvings and statues and snakes and shaken nerves. And I did not faint again until somebody mentioned that the ghost-sentinel had reappeared about the time I had staggered halfway back to town. I left Binger that evening, and have never been there since, though they tell me the ghosts still appear on the mound as usual.

But I have resolved to hint here at last what I dared not hint to the people of Binger on that terrible August afternoon. I don’t know yet just how I can go about it — and if in the end you think my reticence strange, just remember that to imagine such a horror is one thing, hut to see it is another thing. I saw it.

I think you’ll recall my citing early in this tale the case of a bright young man named Heaton who went out to that mound one day in 1891 and came back at night as the village idiot, babbling for eight years about horrors and then dying in an epileptic fit. What he used to keep moaning was "that white man — or, my God, what they did to him ..."

Well, I saw the same thing that poor Heaton saw — and I saw it after reading that manuscript; so I know more of its history than he did. That makes it worse, for I know all that it implies — ^all that must be still brooding and festering and waiting down there. I told you it had padded mechanically toward me out of the narrow passage, and had stood sentrylike at the entrance. That was natural and inevitable — because the thing was a sentry. It had been made a sentry for punishment, and it was quite dead, besides lacking head, arms, lower legs and other customary parts of a human being. Yes, it had been a very human being once; and what is more, it had been white. Very obviously, if that manuscript was as true as I think it was, this being had been used for the diversions of the amphitheater, before its life had become wholly extinct and supplanted by automatic impulses controlled from outside.

On its white and only slightly hairy chest some letters had been gashed or branded — I had not stopped to investigate, but had merly noted that they were in an awkward and fumbling Spanish; an awkward Spanish implying a kind of ironic use of the language by an alien inscriber familiar neither with the idiom nor the Roman letters used to record it. The inscription had read: "Secuestrado a la voluntad de Xinain en el cuerpo decapitado de Tlayub" — "Seized by the will of K-n-yan in the headless body of T’la-yub.”

Happened to Me

BIRD TALES will pay ten dollars apiece for true psychic experiences. Have " you ever slept in a haunted house, or been chased by a ghost? Have you ever dreamed a dream that came true? Has your life been saved by a vision? Let the other readers of WEIRD TALES know about your weird experience. Your story must be briefly told, in not more than a thousand words; the shorter the better. It must be true, interesting, and must deal with the supernatural. Write it down today and send it to WEIRD TALES, “It Happened to Me" department, 9 Rockefeller Plaza, New York, N. Y. We will pay ten dollars for every one used.

GHOST FARM

By DULCIE BROWNE

M y FATHER’S farm was situated in the San Joaquin Valley near Tulare Lake — which had receded until it was no more than a dank mud-hole. It was said, however, that the lake had, at orie time, covered a large area in the center of the valley and that the place where we lived was a portion of that old lake bed.

Be that as it may, the land was fertile and father had done quite well so far. He had working for him an Indian from the reservation some miles away. Old Skip was a good worker but silent and of a reserved disposition, showing no emotion at any time.

The only time I ever saw Skip display any feeling was the time when my father voiced his intention of plowing up a high spot in the center of the ranch which had hitherto been uncultivated on account of not being accessible to irrigation water. Old Skip showed a great deal of excitement and displeasure at my father’s suggestion and departed to the reservation in high dungeon. Nothing daimted, father hitched up a team and began to play the knoll. I was with him when we discovered the human skulls planted so close to the top of the ground that the plowshare threw them up in the furrow.

It was easy to see that the slculls were those of Indians and that they had been buried many years ago. Putting the team in the barn father took a shovel and began to dig in the spot where most of the bones were turned up. He found many of them of all sizes, indicating that men, women and children had all been buried together in all kinds of shapes. There were also many stone implements buried with them.

When Skip heard of the find, as all the countryside did before long, he came back to the ranch and advised father to stop digging the bones up. His voice contained a warning as he said:

"You make lots of money. You will lose money if you not stop digging. Skip know.”

But father only laughed at what he considered an old Indian superstition and kept right on digging. Of course, people came from far and near to examine and exclaim over the weird find, while the hole in the ground grew bigger every day and the pile of bones higher.

It was at this time that we children began to hear strange noises about the house, and there were times when one could actually see in a strange sort of way, as though the thing were a vision; that a human form




was near. Sitting below stairs one could not help hearing the distinct sound of footfalls in the rooms upstairs. Then, too, there was that sound of striking flint that could be heard in any room in the house. My parents ignored these sounds and forbade us to speak of them in their hearing. But so noticeable did they become that we referred to that company of shadowy occupants as "They,” and to us they became like members of our own household.

Father had now dug a pit so deep that it was over his head and water was seeping in. And then he came to a large flat rock. The rock could easily have been six by eight feet, had it been entirely square instead of roughly so. When he had completely uncovered it it took about a dozen of the neighbors to help him get it up out of the ground. I understood that father expected to discover hidden treasure, and his hopes were higher still as he dug in the mud and slush where the rock had been. But there were only more bones. Only one skeleton and that of a huge man over seven feet tall.

Here my father’s quest was at an end. There had been no treasure, and father was keenly disappointed. He began refilling the huge hole, throwing the bones back in wild disarray. As he filled in the last spadeful of earth he seemed glad to be rid of the whole business.

When father ceased his operations it would have seemed that the phenomena in the house would be ended. But it was not so. Things were as they had been. And there was a noticeable difference seen in the whole ranch. The fowl and animals began to perish with strange diseases, the crops were not coming up to expectations. There was a dull gray tinge settling over the very buildings and even the shade trees that had flourished so greenly in the yard were wilting and yellowing.

The next year there was no green thing growing on the whole ranch, in spite of father’s careful planning and culture. Experts came. They shook their heads and went away perplexed. My father’s place became a blighted area among all the green fields of our neighbors. Father was losing money in every transaction he made. Two years later we left the farm, abandoned it to the gray horde.

Today the farm is just the same. Other folk have moved there from time to time and left when they found they could grow no crops. The house stares vacantly out of its paneless windows. I often wonder if that Indian horde still inhabits it and what secrets they whisper to each other as they pass through the deserted rooms, the soft padding of their feet resounding as I heard them many times.


I T IS with profound regret that we announce the death of Farnsworth Wright who was editor of WEIRD TALES for many years and was so largely responsible for the success of the magazine. It seems fitting that we should print here in the Eyrie a letter about Mr. Wright from a man who not only was one of his personal friends, but also a constant contributor to WEIRD TALES. The staff of WEIRD TALES, its contributors and countless of its readers join with Seabury Quinn in his tribute to a great editor and scholar.

FARNSWORTH WRIGHT

L ike everyone who has long been a reader of or contributor to Weird Tales, I was greatly shocked and grieved at the news of Farnsworth Wright’s passing. Any one who has read Weird Tales must have been impressed by his thorough knowledge of weird literature, his complete understanding of the great background of folk lore, superstition and comparative religion from which such literature is drawn, and his nice sense of discrimination in selecting the cream of such stories by modern authors to carry on the tradition of the Georgian and early Victorian masters of Gothic tales. Helped and encouraged by his expert criticism and kindly advice a whole generation of writers was developed, and though many of these have "graduated” to other media of expression, none, I am sure, will ever forget the debt he owes to Farnsworth Wright. There is today hardly a writer of fantasy whose success does not date from the encouragement he received from Mr. Wright, and there is certainly no one engaged in creative work who ever dealt with Farnsworth Wright who does not thinJc kindly of him.

To those of us who were privileged to know him personally the loss is even greater.

We knew him as a cultured gentleman, a charming host, an incomparably congenial companion, and a true and loyal friend. His steadily failing health caused us all concern, but his courage and resolution were so great that none of us realized how near the great beyond he was. His cheerful letters lulled us into a sense of false optimism, and when news of his death came our surprise was almost equal to our grief.

As for his abilities, his work provides the finest monument possible. In the old files of Weird Tales can be read the biography of a man whose genius made possible a magazine which was and is truly unique. As to his epitaph: If it be true that in imitation lies the sincerest form of flattery, Farnsworth Wright has been eloquently acclaimed. When he assumed the editorial chair of Weird Tales almost twenty years ago he was a lone adventurer setting out to bring a highly specialized form of entertainment to the reading public. A recent issue of Author & ]ournalist lists twenty-two magazines devoted exclusively to fantasy or pseudo-scientific fiction. Could any greater or more sincere compliment be paid his vision or his work?

SEABURY QUINN.




Did It Happen?

From Denver, Colorado, E. Hoffmann Price writes:

"Looking at the July Eyrie and noting the comment (page 124) on Alice Olsen’s true experience yam about the ghost girl at the Cocoanut Grove reminds me of a bit of background I picked up on that same story. I was in Salt Lake City some while ago and picked up substantially the same account, from a newspaper man, a couple of months before it was printed in WT. One is at times inclined to be skeptical about 'true’ experiences; but this one seems to stand up under investigation. The names given • in your account are, wisely enough, somewhat different from the first hand account I got. There was also an ingenious and pretty successful attempt at a 'logical’ explanation- Inasmuch as persons locally known are the principal characters of the tragedy, die story behind the story was never printed. This is not intended to refute Mr. McDonald’s interesting discussion; I merely thought that readers would be interested to know that there was actually such a mystery, at least enough to warrant an expense account of ^7.35 for the investigator before he was told that even if his deductions were true, the whole business v/ould still be dropped. Whether sure enough supernatural, or a clever hoax that kicked back, fatally, is neither here nor there. A remarkable yam and what WT printed was just about the straight of it.”

From Springfield, Missouri, Donald V. Allgeier writes:

"For ten years I have been a WT fan and during that time it has always been my favorite of all magazines. I still have nostalgic memories of some of the great stories in the magazine’s past. I was afraid that bi-monthly publication might be necessary, but I was relieved to see that the high quality of the stories remained.

Why not restore the old custom of voting for the best story each issue and printing the title of the winner? That used to spur me to write in at least once every two months.

"I like most of the illustrations. Bok is good, as is Ferman and, occasionally, del Campo. The best story in September was, by all odds, 'Sea Bom.’ ”

{What do you readers think of Mr. AIIgeier’s "voting for the best story” suggestion?

We feel it might be a good idea to restore this feature. Let us know what you think?]

Fact Articles

Blair Moffett writes from Springfield, Pennsylvania;

"Mr. Frank Bristol, several issues back, and Mr, A1 MacDowell in the last, made a good suggestion: I’d like to second it. The suggestion was: why not publish short fact articles on occult, esoteric, mythological, and kindred subjects? This would add immensely to WT’s value, and give a sane and sound direction to the swiftly growing interest in this tj-pe of study tliat can be noticed all over the cormtry. 'It Happened to Me’ is, it seems, an absorbing step in this direction. Mr. MacDonald’s article was excellent, and gives an interpretation esoterically, that explains one point of view. And 'The Black Art’ finished the Eyrie off very nicely.”

{We hope to continue printing more of "the Black Art” type of articles whenever there is sufficient space.]

Golden Chalice

From Dyersburg, Tenn., James G. Merriman writes:

"There is one point I’d like to raise. In the story on "The Golden Chalice” (July issue) there is nothing miraculous about the Cup itself that is, it was excavated, not sent down from Heaven as in the legends — it was just a battered drinking vessel. How, then, does Mr. Gruber account for its being golden? Neither Jesus nor any one personally connected with Him was rich, and He would not have used golden dishes, anyway.”

In answer to tire Holy Grail query raised by Mr. Merriman, the autlior of "The Golden Chalice” replies: “In the legends I’ve read about the Chalice, it has always been golden. Although the size and shape have varied according to the different legends, some even having it a shallow dish, rather than a cup. But always it has been golden. The Holy Grail, which Sir Galahad sought so strenuously, was supposed to have been of gold. "Religion must be taken on faith alone.


THE EYRIE

Recorded history does not always bear out religion.

"If He could turn a few loaves into enough to feed a multitude, He could certainly change a dish made of baser material into gold — if He wanted to. Mr. Merriman must have skipped over his Bible a little hastily, if he says that everyone connected with Him was poor. At least one of the twelve apostles was a rich man. I leave the name for Mr. Merriman to discover.

“The particular cup in my story was based on the one shown at the Chicago World’s Fair in 1933, which like the one in my story was excavated near Antioch. It was definitely golden.

"Why wouldn’t He have used golden dishes ? "Frank Gruber.”

T he mystery of Holy Grail remains one of the most fascinating unsolved riddles of all time. . . . Certainly no other single object has collected about itself such a wealth of myth and legend — every Christian and semiChristian land has its own especial version concerning this mystical vessel of thin and hammered gold (which, as you know, is reputed to have been used by Christ at the Last Supper).

In the Arthurian legends the Golden Chalice has the romantic name of the Holy Sangreal. Perhaps this — the quest by the knights of a legendary king for a legendary grail — is the most fascinating of all the chalice myths. Sir Launcelot, who captained the holy search party, traveled for many years through the dark forests of England’s premediaeval West — where in high towers wizards cast their spells and enchantment waited round every twist in the path.

In charming old English one legend relates: "So it befell on a night, at midnight, he arrived before a castle, which was rich and fair, and there was a postern opened towards the sea, and was open without any entry, save two lions kept the entry; and the moon shone clear.” Sir Launcelot went into the castle, and after an encounter with a dwarf, who temporarily paralyzed his arm, came upon a chapel. Here he beheld the Holy Sangreal itself, covered with scarlet samite, and standing on an altar where one candle burned. But before he could approach it, he was sudHiqh School Raises our Sfdhclarcis^fS

Many Finish In 2 Years ^

Finish HighSchooIathome.asFASTastimeand ability permit. Equivalent to resident school work — prepares fop college, pre-professional examinations, business, industry. Standard texts* Diploma. Credit for High School subjects already completed. Single subjects if desired. American School, Chicago, est.l897.FjEiEE Bulletin. Write TODAY 1

American School, Dept. H -739, Drexel Ava, at 58th St.,Chic3so Send free information as chocked below. No obligation.

-HIGH SCHOOL COURSE - Air Conditioning'^

—Accounting and Auditing — Diesel Engineenng

— Architecture and Building — Drafting and Desioi

— Automotive Engineering — LiberalArts

— Business Management _

— Aviation

— Etentrical engineering

— Electric and Gas Retrlgeraticn

— Mechanical Engmeerlng

— Radio and Television

- Home Economics Courses

Name.

PiNomption Bfe^iris qt Homb

INVENTORS

Take first step to protect your Invention— without cost. Get free Becord of Invention form and 48 page book, “Patent Guide for the j Inventor." Time Counts! Write today.

CLARENCE A. O'BRIEN

Registered Patent Attorney Dept OK-5 Adams Bldg., Washington, D. C.

fesDiwriiiys)

TAN SKINS— MAKEO^FURs'r^'"

t e a Taxidermist. We teach von at Home. Mount ^ irds, Animals, Pets. Heads, Ffsh. Savevour honting trophies. Decorate home and dezu Make Money. Mount and tan for others. Fan and Profitsl Don't delay. WRITE TODAY-NOW-for

FREE BOOK

^ Hantera.iMt yoor copy.-* It’fl Now Free. Send post card. State yoor '

M. W: SCHOOL OF TAXiDWMY,

Dept, 9037, Omaha, Netoe

Home-Study

Business Training

Your opportunity will never be bigger than your preparation. Prepare now and reap the rewards of early success. Free 64-Page Books Tell How. Write NOW for book you want, or maU coupon with your name, present position ai^ address in margin today.

□ Higher Accountancy □Mod. Salesmanship

□ Traffic Management

□ Law: Degree of LL» B. □Commercial Law □Industrial Mgm’t

□ Business Mgm’t

□ Business Corres.

D Expert Bookkeeping

□ C. P. A. Coaching

□ Effective Speaking OStenotypy

LaSalle Extension University

Dept I07S.R * Chicago



SECRETS ENTRUSTED

T here are some things that can not be generally told — things you. ought to know. Great truths are dangerous to some — ^but factors for personal power and accomplishment in the hands of those who imderstand them.Behind the tales of the miracles and mysteries of the ancients, Jie centuries of their secret probing into nature’s laws — their amazing discoveries of ihie hidden processes of man’s mind, and the mastery of life’s problems. Once shrouded in mystery to avoid their destruction by mass fear and ignorance, these facts remain a useful heritage for the thousands of men and women who privately use them in their homes today.

THIS FBEE BOOR

The Rosicrucdans (not a religious organization), an age-old brotherhood of learning, have preserved this secret wisdom in their archives for centuries. They now invite you to share iho _praGtical helpfulness of their teachings. Write today for a free copy of the book, “The Secret Heritage.*’ Within its pages may lie a new life of opportunity for you. Address Scribe B.M.N,

Rosicrucians

CAMORC), SAN JOSE, CALIFORNIA, U. S. A.

WEIRD BOOKS RENTED

denly struck with fire, and lay unconscious and near death for twenty-four days.

Men have searched in a tliousand lands for the Holy Grail; no one, not even an archeologist, has ever found it.

WEIRD TALES CLUB 9 Rockefeller Plaza New York, N. Y.

T he Weird Tales Club is growing. During these last several weeks we have had the largest response since the Club first got under way, and, as you see, the list of members in this issue is three times as long as the list printed in the September number. This is all very encouraging, and we can all hope that in the not so distant future your Club will expand to proportions where it will be of real value to fans and readers.

You will be glad to hear that a membership card — carrying a design by Hannes Bok — is being prepared. This card will be sent to everyone enclosing a stamped addressed envelope.

Incidentally, a number of readers have suggested in their letters that we print members’ ages. So perhaps all those desiring their ages published would tell us when writing in?

If you are not already a member, why not drop us a line, so that we can enroll you on the Club roster, and publish your name and address in the magazine?

We’re looking to you to keep the Weird Tales Club rolling!

WEIRD TALES CLUB,

9 Rockefeller Plaza,

New York, N. Y.

Well, it seems from the amount of correspondence and serious inquirers, that the oft-wished-for WT Club is under way at

Books by lovecraft, Merritt, Quinn, etc., rented by malL 9c a day plus postage. Write for free Hsu WEREWOLF LENDING LIBRARY. 227*8, So. Atlantic Avenue, Pittsburgh, Pa.

THE EYRIE


last. I believe I voice the opinion of all the correspondent-members when I say that those who have discovered others of like interests through this Club have found it most interesting, instructive, and an allaround satisfaction.

Thanks for hearing with me; and a toast to all those who have made it possible for "factual fantasy” lovers to get together.

Blair Moffett.

340 Powell Road,

Springfield, Pa.

WEIRD TALES CLUB,

9 Rockefeller Plaza,

New York, N. Y.

The WEIRD TALES CLUB is a good idea, and I would like to tell WT readers that we already have a club here in Eastern Massachusetts which meets aroimd Boston, and we would welcome any fantasy or science-fiction fans desirous of joining.

Art Widner, Jr., Director of The Stranger Club Box 122, Bryantville, Mass.

WEIRD TALES CLUB,

9 Rockefeller Plaza,

New York, N. Y.

We readers of WEIRD TALES in Cleveland are forming a club to discuss the stories in your unusual magazine. Readers wishing to cooperate in the formation of this club are advised to contact the undersigned immediately, for further discussion.

More of Bloch!

Allen R. Baker.

3362 E. 140th St.,

Cleveland, Ohio.

WEIRD TALES CLUB,

9 Rockefeller Plaza,

New York, N. Y.

I’m alone. Oh yes, I have friends and acquaintances, but no one with whom to discuss the subjects in which I’m most interested. Books, the theater, radio, composing, AND SCIENCE HCTION AND FANTASY. So I’m alone.

Could you please publish my name and address in WEIRD TALES, as a member who would like to establish communication with kindred souls close by, with a view to arranging reciprocal visits?

John Wasso, Jr.

119 Jackson Ave.,

Pen Argyl, Pa.

New Members

Herbert Arthur Sloane, 214 Chillicothe St., Portsmouth, Ohio.

Alexander MacDowell, Box 46, Walden,

N. Y.

Albert B. Stavltsky, 322 Clinton Ave., Newark, N. J.

Harry Lambert, 3312 — 36th Ave. S, Minneapolis, Minn.

Harold De Ford, 39 India St., Brooklyn, N. Y.

Earl H. Williams, 15 12 A State St., East St. Louis, Illinois.

John Wasso, Jr., 119 Jackson Ave., Pen Argyl, Pa.

Agnes Faulkner, 818 Greenlawn Ave., Peoria, Illinois.

Lester Balcom, 294 Summer St., Malden, Mass.

Rosalyn Moody, Monroe, Georgia.

William Hammarstrom, Waretown, N. J.

Julian H. Woodruff, P. O. Box No. 5, Murfreesboro, Tennessee.

W. C. Murray, Camp Clayton, Calif.

Al. Moore, 1511 N. E. Tillamook St., Portland, Oregon.

Winifred Marx, c/o Marxochime Colony, New Troy, Michigan.

Dick Balch, 18969 Ohio Ave., Detroit, Michigan.

Richard Geney, R. F. D. No. 1, Owosso, Michigan.

Harry Wyman, 327 Niagara St., Buffalo, N. Y.

Roy E. Bowman, R No. 2, Waynesboro, Va.

Wallis Clarke, Cadiz, Kentucky.

Beatrice A. Brownlee, 460 Clayton St, Denver, Colorado.

Jerome Kelley, P. O. Box No. 250, Camp Hendersonville, North Carolina.

Elsie May Mercer, 215 Edkley Ave., Peoria, Illinois.

Agnes Waga, 13 North Main St., Perry, N. Y.

Robert Lenoir Mayo, 181 Park Place, Brooklyn, N. Y.

Allen R. Baker, 3562 East I40th St., Cleveland, Ohio.

THE SHAPE OF THRILLS TO COM

Peer into the future with us for a few minutes — and take a look at what is coming in the next


All fans of SEABURY QUINN (and that means WEIRD TAL^’ fans) will be glad to hear that another fine yarn by this great writer is scheduled. It’s titled . . •

...Two Shall Be Born—

an enthralling novelette of the crumbling empire of Byzantium— of doomed garrisons falling before the Saracen hordes — of a suicide pact of ancient times, and the beautiful girl who lay, fresh and untouched in her coffin of terra cotta, waiting through the centuries for her lover in present day New York.

BEDFOED-JONES is contributing the fourth and last tale in his Professional Corpse series.

HENRY KUTTNER

stages a smashing comeback with his superb novelette — DEACON MOON this author’s first story since his TOWEES OF DEATH in the November issue of 1939. Sorcery and black evil, the powers, that battled with the Pallid One for the Dragon throne of Cyrena ... the clanging harbor of Poseidonia, and all the glamor of the drowned continent of Atlantis come to life in this grand fantasy.

The January Issue will be on sale At Your Newsstand On November 3.st.

As well as these topliners we promise a selection of stories by such tried favorites as:

Mary Elizabeth Counselman . . . Loretta Burrough . . . Robert Bloch . . . Thorp McClusky . . . Ralph Milne Farley . . . Carl Jacobi . . . and many others.

tj We Switched to LbG Americas Eivorite Omalt

“We get more wear per dollar, a perfect fit regardless of build, and besides Lee gives you an alert on-the-job appearance that helps you get ahead!

“Those are just three of the many reasons you’ll know about when you get your first Lee. It’s no wonder to us that Lee is America’s favorite overall, nation wide.”

Well! You see what genuine Jelt Denim, genuine Lee tailored sizes and unmatched Lee construction mean to men who are on the job getting places in the world! You’ll go big for Lee, too! See your dealer.

Copyright 1940, The H. D. Lee Merc. Co.

OVERALLS

UNION MADE Sanforized-Shrunk *

FREE! Send For ’TINY LEE”

THE H. D. LEE MERC. COMPANY Dept. N-10

(Address nearest office)

Kansas City. Me,; Trenton, N.J.; So. Bend, Ind.; Minneapolis, Minn, ^n Francisco, Calif.; Salina, kans.

Please send me a Lee minature cut-out Jelt Denim Overall ”” also name of my nearest Lee dealer.

Name

Address .......

Town.-.- ....... State....... — ....... P40il

*FabricShrinka8$ Less than 1% Standard Test CS-59’3$.

OR

EASY TERMS While THEY Last!

f Truly the most outstanding offer I have given my customers in years! Only because of an exceptional purchase can I sell these Noiseless machines at the sensationally low price of $34.85 (cash) or on easy terms of 70c a week. Eat'h one carefully gone over and refinishecl ^o that its lustre gives it the appearance of a brand new machine costing over three times as much. The mfra. orig. selling ■price on this Underwood -was $125.00. It's sent to you in Underwood packing })ox with Underwood book of instructions on care and operation.

A NOISELESS MACHINE

Latest achievement in typewriters! Provides writing perfection with SILENCE. For those who want the advantages of a quiet home or office. This Underwood’s Noiseless mechanism eliminates the nerve shattering clatter eoninion to many models. An aid to better work because it allows clear thinking^ reduces fatigue, improves accuracy. This typewriter disturbs no one. for it is almost impossible to hear it operate a few feet away. You get all the features of an Underwood PLUS Noiseless typing.

FIRST CHOICE OF TYPISTS

OVER 5.000.000 UNDERW.OODS NOW IN

EXTRA VALUE!

TYPEWRITER STAND

Two Wings Correct Working Height All Metal

touch of finger

For' those wlio have no typewriter stand or hMidy placb to use a machine, I malte this special offer. This attractive stand that ordinarily sells for $4.85 can be yours for only $?.00 extra added to your account. Quality built. Note all its convenient features.

MFRS. ORIG. SELLING PRICE

$ 125 - NO MONEY DOWN

10 DAY TRIAL

Easy Terms— 10c A Day

No obligation. See before you buy on wide open 10 day trial. Pay no nioii(‘y \iutil yon test, inspect, compare, and use this Underwood Noiseless. Judge for yourself without hurry and without risk. When you are convinced that this is the biggest tyjiewriter bargain you have ever seen then say, “I’ll Buy.” Send only 70c a week or .$3.00 a month until term price of only .$38.85 is paid. Try it first, enjoy a full 10 days’ .steady use. There is no red tape or investigation — >Iy offer is exactly as I state it.

2-YEAR GUARANTEE

I back this machine with my personal 2-yr. guarantee that it is in A-1 condition in every respect — that it will give first class service. Over 30 years of fair dealing and my 200.000 satisfied customers prove the soundness of luy golden rule policy and prove that dealing direct with me saves you money.

USE!

Recognized as the finest, strongest built! Here is an office size Underwood with late modern features that give you SILENT TYPING. Has all standard equipment — keyboard. ,2 colors, back spacer, automatic reverse. tabulator, etc. THERE IS NO RISK! SEE BEFORE YOU BUY ON MY 10 DAY NO OBLIGATION TRIAL PLAN. If you wish send the machine back at my expense.

Touch Typing Course

A complete home study course of famous Van Zaiidt Touch Typing system. Learn to type quickly and easily. Carefully illustrated. Written expressly for home use.

WIDE 14” CARRIAGES

Wide carriage machines for government reports, large o.^ce forms, billing, etc., only .$3.00 extra with order. Takes paper 14" wide, has 12" writing line. A Beal Buy in an Underwood Noiseless!

International Typewriter Exchange

231 W. Monroe St. Dept. 1092 Chicago. III.

MAIL COUPON NOW • Li/tnUed. 0,ua*UiU/ c^Sa&,!

I International Typewriter Exchange, Dept. 1092, 231 W. IWonroe St., CWcag

I Send Underwood Noiseless (F.O.B. Chicago) for ten days' trial. If I keep it, I will pay $3.00 per month until easy term price ($38.85) i-s paid. If I am not satisfied I can return

i it express collect. □ 10" carriage. Q 14" carriage ($3.00 extra)

For quick shipment give occupation and reference

Age.

Name. , . ,

Address

. City State «

I □ Check for typewriter stand ($3.00 extra) Stand sent on receipt of first payment on Underwood. |

[THE END]
