============================================================
Weird Tales
Volume 44, Number 2
Date: January 1952
============================================================
============================================================
TABLE OF CONTENTS

  1. "spare time" by Prepare for future security by training at home and qualifying for Diploma. Anatomy
============================================================
============================================================
by Prepare for future security by training at home and qualifying for Diploma. Anatomy
============================================================
who rouses to a sitting position to ask seriously how many Bolshevists were killed by Julius Caesar before he was stabbed by Brutus, or why it was that Roller canaries sang only on Wednesday evenings. He knew that tragedy of the most sinister sort had stalked through his life — ^but little more, at first.

Later the police obtained that one statement that he had murdered two human beings, but never could means or motive be established. Official guess as to the means was no more than wild conjecture; it mentioned enticing the victims to the noisorhe

depths of Moccasin Swamp, there to let them flounder and sink.

The two were his son and daughter-inlaw, Lee and Peggy!

IV

"DY FEIGNING coma — then awakening with suddenness to assault three attendants with incredible ferocity and strength — ^John Corliss Cranmer escaped from Elizabeth Ritter Hospital.

How he hid, how he managed to traverse sixty-odd intervening miles and still balk detection, remains a minor mystery to be explained only by the assumption that maniacal cunning sufficed to outwit saner intellects.

Traverse these miles he did, though until I was fortunate enough to uncover evidence to this effect, it was supposed generally that he had made his escape as stowaway on one of the banana boats, or had buried himself in some portion of the nearer woods where he was unknown. The truth ought to be w'dcome to householders of Shanksville. Burdett’s Corners and vicinage — those excusably prudent ones who to this day keep loaded shotguns handy and barricade their doors at nightfall.

The first ten days of my investigation may be touched upon in brief. I made headquarters in Burdett’s Corners, and drove out each morning, carrying lunch and returning for my grits and pineywoods pork or mutton before nightfall. My first plan had been to camp out at the edge of the swamp, for opportunity to enjoy the outdoors comes rarely in my direction. Yet after one cursory examination of the premises I abandoned the idea. I did not to camp alone there. And I am less superstitious than a real estate agent.

It was, perhaps, p^chic warning; more probably the queer, faint, salty odor as of fish left to decay, which hung about the ruin, made too unpleasant an impression upon my olfactory sense. I experienced a distinct chill every time the lengthening shadows caught me near Dead House.

The smell impressed me. In newspaper reports of the case one ingenious explanation had been worked out. To the rear- of

OOZE


the spot where Dead House had stood — inside the wall — ^was a swampy hollow circular in shape. Only a little real mud lay in the bottom of the bowlike depression now, but one reporter on the staff of The Mobile Register guessed that during the tenancy of the lodge it had been a fishpool. Drying up of the water had killed the fish, who now, permeated the remnant of mud with this foul odor.

The possibility that Cranmer had needed to keep fresh fish at hand for some of his experiments silenced the natural objection that in a country where every stream holds gar pike, bass, catfish and many other edible varieties, no one would dream of stocking a stagnant puddle.

After tramping about the enclosure, testing the queerly brittle, desiccated top stratum of earth within and speculating concerning the possible purpose of the wall, I cut off a long limb of chinaberry and probed the mud. One fragment of fish spine would confirm the guess of that imaginative reporter.

I found nothing resembling a piscal skeleton, but established several facts. First, this mud crater had definite bottom only three or four feet below the surface of remaining ooze. Second, the fishy stencli became stronger as I stirred. Third, at one time the mud, water, or whatever had comprised the balance of content, had reached the rim of the bowl. The last showed 1^ certain marks plain enough when the crusty, two-inch stratum of upper coating was broken away. It was puzzling.

The nature of that thin, desiccated effluvium which seemed to cover everything even to the lower foot or two of brick, came in for next inspection. It was strange stuff, unlike any earth I ever had seen, though undoubtedly some form of scum drained in from the swamp at the time of river floods or cloudbursts (which in this section are common enough in spring and fall). It crumbled beneath the fingers. When I walked over it, the stuff crunched hollowly. In fainter degree it possessed the fishy odor also.

I took some samples where it lay thickest upon the ground, and also a few where there seemed to be no more than a depth

of a sheet of paper. Later I would have a laboratory analysis made.

Apart from any possible bearing the stuff might have upon the disappearance of my three friends, I felt the tug of article interest — that wonder over anything strange or seemingly inexplicable which lends the hunt for fact a certain glamor and romance all its own. To myself I was going to have to explain sooner or later just why this layer covered the entire space within the walls and was not perceptible anyivhere outside! The enigma could wait, however — or so I decided.

Far more interesting were the traces of violence apparent on wall and what once had been a house. The latter seemed to have been ripped from its foundations by a giant hand, crushed out of semblance to a dwelling, and then cast in fragments about the base of wall — ^mainly on the south side, where heaps of twisted, broken timbers lay in profusion. On the opposite side there had been such heaps once, but now only charred sticks, coated with that gray-black, omipresent coat of desiccation, remained. These piles of charcoal had been sifted and examined most carefully by the authorities, as one theory had been advanced that Cranmer had burned the bodies of his victims. Yet no sign whatever of human remains was discovered.

The fire, however, pointed out one odd fact which controverted the reconstructions made by detectives months before. The latter, suggesting the dried scum to have drained in from the swamp, believed that the house timbers had floated out to the sides of the wall — ^there to arrange themselves in a series of piles! The absurdity of such a theory showed even more plainly in the fact that ij the scum had filtered through in such a flood, the timbers most certainly had been dragged into piles previously! Some had burned — and the scum coated their charred surfaces!

What had been the force which had torn the lodge to bits as if in spiteful fury? Why had the parts of the wreckage been burned, the rest to escape?

Right here I felt was the keynote to the mystery, yet I could imagine no explanation. That John Corliss Cranmer himaelf —



physically sound, yet a man who for decades had led a sedentary life — could have accomplished such destruction, unaided, was diihcult to believe.

V

ITURNED my attention to the wall, hoping for evidence which might suggest another theory.

That wall had been an example of the worst snide construction. Though little more than a year old, the parts left standing showed evidence that they had begun to decay the day the last brick was laid. The mortar had fallen from the interstices. Here and there a brick had cracked and dropped out. Fibrils of the climbing vines had penetrated crevices, working for early destruction.

And one side already had fallen.

It was here that the first glimmering suspicion of the terrible truth was forced upon me. The scattered bricks, even those which had rolled inward toward the gaping foundation lodge, had not been coated with scum! This was curious, yet it could be explained by surmise that the flood itself had undermined this weakest portion of the wall. I cleared away a mass of brick from the spot on which the structure had stood; to my surprise I found it exceptionally firm! Hard red clay lay beneath! The flood conception was faulty; only some great force, exerted from inside or outside, could have wreaked such destruction.

When careful measurement, analysis and deduction convinced me — mainly from the fact that the lowermost layers of brick all had fallen outward, while the upper portions toppled in — I began to link up this mysterious and horrific force with the' one which had rent the Lodge asunder. It looked as though a typhoon or gigantic centrifuge had needed elbow room in ripping down the wooden structure.

But I got nowhere with the theory, though in^ ordinary affairs I am called a man of too great imaginative tendencies. No less than three editors have cautioned me on this point. Perhaps it was the narrowing influence of great personal sympathy — yes, and love. I make no excuses, though beyond a dim understanding that some terrific, implacable force must have made this spot his playground, I ended my ninth day of note-taking and investigation almost as much in the dark as I had been while a thousand miles away in Chicago.

Then I started among the darkies and Cajans. A whole day I listened to yarns of the days which preceded Cranmer’s escape from Elizabeth Ritter Hospital — days in which furtive men sniffed poisoned air for miles around Dead House, finding the odor intolerable. Days in which it seemed none possessed nerve enough to approach close. Days when the most fanciful tales of mediaeval superstitions were spun. These tales I shall not give; the truth is incredible enough.

At noon upon the eleventh day I chanced upon Rori Pailleron, a Cajan — and one of the least prepossessing of all with whom I had come in contact. "Chanced” perhaps is a bad word. I had listed every dweller of the woods within a five mile radius. Rori was sixteenth on my list. I went to him only after interviewing all four of the Crabiers and two whole families of Pichons. And Rori regarded me with the utmost suspicion until I made him a present of the two quarts of "shinny” purchased of the Pichons.

Because long practice has perfected me in the technique of seeming to drink another man’s awful liquor— no. I’m not an absolute prohibitionist; fine wine or twelveyear-in-cask Bourbon whiskey arouses my definite interest — I fooled Pailleron from the start. I shall omit preliminaries, and leap to the first admission from him that he knew more concerning Dead House and its former inmates than any of the other darkies or Cajans rouiidabout.

"... But I ain’t talkin’. Sucre! If I should open my gab, what might fly out? It is for keeping silent, y’r damn right!...”

I agreed. He was a wise man — educated to some extent in the queer schools and churches maintained exclusively by Cajans in the depths of tire woods, yet naive withal.

We drank. And I never had to ask another leading question. The liquor made him want to interest me; and the only

OOZE


extraordinary topic in this whole neck of the woods was the Dead House.

Three-quarters of a pint of acrid, nauseous fluid, and he hinted darkly. A pint, and he told me something I scarcely could believe. Anotlier half -pint.... But I shall give his confession in condensed form.

He had known Joe Sibley, the octoroon chef, houseman and valet who served Cranmer. Through Joe, Rori had furnished certain indispensabies in way of food to the Cranmer household. At first, these salable articles had been exclusively vegetable — white and yellow turnip, sweet potatoes, corn and beans — but later, meail

Yes, meat especially — w^hole Iambs, slaughtered and quartered, the coarsest variety of piney-woods pork and beef, all in immense quantity!

VI

NDECERIBER of the fatal winter Lee and his wife stopped down at the Lodge for ten days or thereabouts.

They were enroute to Cuba at the time, intending to be away five or six weeks. Their original plan had been only to wait over a day or so in the piney-woods, but something caused an amendment to the scheme.

The two dallied. Lee seemed to have become vastly absorbed in something — so much absorbed that it was only when Peggy insisted upon continuing their trip, that he could tear himself away.

It was during those ten days that he began buying meat. Meager bits of it at first —a rabbit, a pair of squirrels, or perhaps a few quail beyond the number he and Peggy shot. Rori furnished the game, thinking nothing of it except that Lee paid double prices — and insisted upon keeping the purchases secret from other members of the household.

"I’m putting it across on the Governor, Rori!” he said once with a wink. "Going to give him the shock of his life. So you mustn’t let on, even to Joe about what I want you to do. Maybe it won’t work out, but if it does...! Dad’ll have the scientific world at his feet! He doesn’t blow his own horn anywhere near enough, you know."

R.ori didn’t know. Hadn’t a suspicion what Lee was talking about. Still, if this rich, young idiot wanted to pay him a half dollar in good silver coin for a quail that anyone — himself included— could knock down with a five-cent shell, Rori was well satisfied to keep his mouth shut. Each evening he brought some of the small game. And each day Lee Cranmer seemed to have use for- an additional quail, or so....

When he was ready to leave for Cuba, Lee came forward with the strangest of propositions. He fairly whispered his vehemence and desire for secrecy! He would tell Rori, and would pay the Cajan five hundred dollars — half in advance, and half at the end of five weeks when Lee himself would return from Cuba — provided Rori agreed to adhere absolutely to a certain secret program! The money was mor-e than a fortune to Pvori; it was undreamt-of affluence. The Cajan acceded.

"He wuz tellin’ me then how the ol’ man had raised some kind of pet,” Rori confided, "an’ wanted to get shet of it. So he give it to Lee, tellin’ him to kill it, but Lee was sot on foolin’ him. W’at I ask yer is, w’at kind of a pet is it w’at lives down in a mud sink an’ eSs a couple haivgs every night?”

I couldn’t imagine, so I pressed him for further details. Here at last was something vchich sounded like a clue!

He really knew too little. The agreement with Lee provided that if Rori carried out the provisions exactly, he should be paid extra and at his exorbitant scale of all additional outlay, when Lee returned.

The young man gave him a daily schedule which Rori showed. Each evening he was to procure, slaughter and cut up a definite — ^and growing — amount of meat. Every item was checked, and I saw that they ran from five pounds up to forty!

"What in heaven’s name, did you do with it?” I demanded, excited now and pouring him an additional drink for fear caution might return to him.

"Took it through the bushes in back an’ slung it in the mud sink there! An’ suthin’ come up an’ drug it down!”

"A ’gator?”

"Diahle! How should I know? It was



FMNTRSTIC BMLEIi!

PAPER-BOUND BOOKS— 4 BOCKS $1

When the Earth Died Inferno Devil’s Planet Energy Alive World in a Test Tube Green Mandarin Sun Makers Cataclysm

War Ijords of Space Deadline to Pluto 2,000 Years On Space Pirates

Beasts from Beyond Whispering Gorilla Nebula X

Mm-der by Telecopter Master-Mind Menace Human Bat

Captive Flying Saucer Shadow over Mars Freaks Against Supermen Space Men Worlds of Fantasy Old Growler and Orbis

Alt 24 JiHes for ONLr S5.00 REEDMOR MAGAZINE CO.

607 Market Street, Philadelphia, Pa.

CASH FOR WEIRD TALES *

I V7ill buy any issue of TALES issued befo7 l 932! want to buy HORROR STORIES,

STRANGE TALES, TERROR TALES, and any collections of Fantastic Magazines and Books. Describe condition and quote price wanted.


372 DODGE STREET BUFFALO 8. N. Y.

-W U M 1 cmIntereated in corresponding with anyone who baa information on the WENDIGO, SNOTOMISH, SASaUATCH, THUNDERBIRD, BIG OWL, POMOLA, SNOWMAN. CADBOROSAUEUS, and all_ similar semi-authentic animals. I can offer similar information in exchange.

Weiie E. ROCKMORE. P. O. Box 148

Wall Street Sto., New York 5. N. Y.. —



1 LINERS OF TIME, John R. Feam $.08

2 NUMBER 7, QUEER STREET, Lawrence 98

STHE BLOND GODDESS, Richards 89

4 THE MASTER of the MACABRE, Thorndike 1.19

All four books for only $3.50 KENNETH J. KRUEGER, 11 Pearl Place, Buffalo 2, N.Y.

— WEIRD BOOKS—

Weird, fantastic, and science-fiction books and back-dated magazines, bought and sold. LOWEST PRICES LIST FREE

Werewolf Boolisliop 1508-H Riverside Drive Verona. Pennsylvonia


NOT FOR THE SQUEAMISi by D. D. Moncrleff. 9 'horrifying F • ' tales of satanism, vampires, etc.

Over 36,000 words 25tf

SINISTER BARRIER by B. Bussell.

Over 50,000-word complete novel of

tttiknmn terror.; 25#

THE GARDEN OF FEAR by Robert Howard. 5 thrilling cfxnplete fantasy & weird adventures 25#

Thrill to 1 or all 3 greai poper-cover booklets! THE FLYING YORKSHIREMAN by Brie Knight. Ten eatrwrSiaarif fmtaaiie yorm. 285 pages (cloth) 50#

ALL FOUR COfifPLETE NOVELS ONLY $LG0 Write TODAY for our FREE illustrated Cataloss of Weird Books, FantastiG-Adventure and Science- Fletion READERS SERVICE BOOK CLUB M9 E. Saa Fernando St. (Dept. W-l) San Jose 13, Calif.

dark. I wouldn’t go close.” He shuddered, and the lingers which lifted his glass shook as with sudden chill, "Mebbe you’d of done it, huh? Not me, though! The young fellah tole me to sling it in, an’ I slung it.

"A couple times I come around in the light, but there wasn’t nuthin’ there you could see. Jes’ mud, an’ some water. Mebbe the thing didn’t come out in daytimes....”

"Perhaps not,” I agreed, straining every mental resource to imagine v/hat Lee’s sinister pet could have been. "But you said something about two hogs a day? ’What did you mean by that? This paper,' proof enough that you’re telling the truth so far, states that on the thirty-fifth day you were to throw forty pounds of meat — any kind — into the sink. Tv/o hogs, even the pineywoods variety, weigh a lot more than forty pounds!”

"Them was after — after he come back!”

From this point onward, Rori’s tale became more and more enmeshed in the vagaries induced by bad liquor. His tongue thickened. I shall give his story without attempt to reproduce further verbal barbarities, or the occasional prodding I had to give in order to keep him from maundering into foolish jargon.

Lee had paid munificently. His only objection to the manner in which Rori had carried out his orders was that the orders themselves had been deficient. The pet, he said had grown enormously. It was hungry, ravenous. Lee himself had supplemented the fare wdth huge pails of scraps from the kitchen.

From that day Lee purchased from Rori whole sheep and hogs! Tlie Cajan continued to bring the carcasses at nightfall, but no longer did Lee permit him to approach the pool. The young man appeared chronically excited now. He had a tremendous secret — one the extent of which even his father did not guess, and one wihich would astonish the world! Only a week or two more and he would spring it. First he would have to arrange certain data.

Then came the day when everyone disappeared from Dead House. Rori came around several times, but concluded that ail of the occupants had folded tents and departed — doubtless taking their mysterious

OOZE

S3

"pet” along. Only when he saw from a distance Joe, the octoroon servant, returning along the road on foot toward the Lodge, did his slow mental processes begin to ferment. That afternoon Rori visited the strange place for the next to last time.

He did not go to the Lodge itself — and there were reasons. While still some hundreds of yards away from the place a terrible, sustained screaming reached his ears! It was faint, yet unmistakably the voice of Joe! Throwing a pair of number two shells into the breach of his shotgun, Rori hurried on, taking his usual path through the brush at the back.

He saw — and as he told me even "shinny” drunkenness fled his chattering tones — Joe, the octoroon. Aye, he stood in the yard, far from the pool into which Rori had thrown the carcasses — and Joe could not movel

^Rori failed to explain in full, but something, a slimy, amorphous something, v/hich glistened in the sunlight, already had engulfed the man to his shoulders! Breath was cut off. Joe’s contorted face writhed with horror and beginning suffocation. One hand — all that was free of the rest of him! — beat feebly upon the rubbery, translucent thing that was engulfing his body! *

Then Joe sank from sight....

VII

F ive days of liquored indulgence passed before Rori, alone in his shaky cabin, convinced himself that he had seen a phantasy born of alcohol. He came back the last time — to find a high wall of brick surrounding the Lodge, and including the pool of mud into v>?hich he had thrown the meat!

While he hesitated, circling the place without discovering an opening — which he would not have dared to use, even had he found it — a crashing, tearing of timbers, and persistent sound of awesome destruction came from within. He swung himself into one of the oaks near the wall. And he was just in time to see the last supporting stanchions of the Lodge give way outward!

The whole structure came apart. The

roof fell in — yet seemed to move after it had fallen! Logs of wall deserted retaining grasp of their spikes like layers of plywood in the grasp of the shearing machine!

That was all. Soddenly intoxicated now, R-ori mumbled more phrases, giving me the idea that on another day when he became sober once more, he might add to his statements, but I — numbed to the soul — scarcely cared. If that which he related was true, what nightmare of madness must have been consummated here!

I could vision some things now which concerned Lee' and Peggy, horrible things. Only remembrance of Elsie kept me faced forward in the search — for now it seemed almost that the handiwork of a madman must be preferred to what Rori claimed to have seen! What had been that sinister, translucent thing? That glistening thing which jumped upward about a man, smothering, engulfing?

Queerly enough, though such a theory as came most easily to mind now would have outraged reason in me if suggested concerning total strangers, I asked myself only what details of Rori’s revelation had been exaggerated by fright and fumes of liquor. And as I sat on the creaking bench in his cabin, staring unseeing as he lurched down to the floor, fumbling with a lock box of green tin which lay under his cot, and muttering, the answer to all my questions lay within reach!

I T WAS not until next day, however, that I made the discovery. Heavy of heart I had reexamined the spot where the Lodge had stood, then made my way to the Cajan’s cabin again, seeking sober confirmation of what he had told me during intoxication.

In imagining that such a spree for Rori would be ended by a single night, however,

I was mistaken. He lay sprawled almost as I had left him. Only two factors were changed. No "shinny” was left — and lying open, with its miscellaneous contents strewed about, was the tin box. Rori somehow had managed to open it with the tiny key still clutched in his hand.

Concern for his safety alone was what made me notice the box. It was a receptacle for small fishing tackle of the sort carried



Whfi NERVOUS TENSION


ALL “KEYEO-yP"

Take Mil^ Nervine to relax. See how it can soothe and comfort “jangled” nerves. Contains no Barbiturates nor other habit forming drugs. Follow -the label. Avoid excessive use. At all drugstores.

Long View Binoculars

UP 10 MILE TO II 0 RANGE

Guaranteed perfect precision ground lenses. Sturdy construction. Focus is odtusiable to your own eye-streagrth. Thirty Millimeter objective. lO-dsy money-back-guarantee SEND CHECK or MONEY ORDER FOR S2.98 and we prepay postage. Or ^«i% sent C.O.D. ami you pay postage charges. CASE and STRAP $1.00 Extra.

OBLUXB MODEL 42 MM $3.9S


480 Lexington Avo. Dept. 397 New York 17, N. Y.

?Hi£fh Scfibbl Course

Many Finish in 2 Years

I Go B3 rapidly as your time and abilities permit. Course I equivalent to resident school work — prepares for college I entrance exams. Standard H. 8. texts supplied. Diploma.

I Credit for H. 8. eobjecta already completed. Single subjects It ] desired. High school educatioa Is very important for advancement ] in business and indnstry and socially. Lton’t be handicapped cQ 1 ^nr life. Be a Kgb S^ool graduate. Start your training now. I Free Bulletin on regussC. No (^ligation.

AmerlcaiiScli0Ql,DaptH949. Drexal at58th.Ciilca»»37

COLT


Over one hundred in Stock [MKOI'v;! Send 50c for the All New Beautiful I ^ to Date Catalog #2. Price

HUNTER

Date Catalog #2. Price Of Catalog applied to first purchase.

5666 W. 3rd St., Dept. 1-12 Los Angeles 26, Calif.

DO YOU HAVE PROSTATE TROUBLE?

General Weakness, Backache, Frequency, Burning Urination, Kidney and Bladder Distress.

The Kansas City Medical Press has just published a revealing booklet which discusses the PROSTATK GLAND in language anyone can understand. Information contained in this book may save you years of suffering. Give name and address. mail coupon today —

I K. C. Medical Press I

I Dept. T-l, 1440 E. 2Ist, j

j North Kansas City, Mo.!

j Please send me by return mail booklets j I I have checked below. I

j The Prostate Gland □ Arthritis □ | ■ High Blood Pressure n Rupture □ j j Please enclose 10c for eoch book { j ordered. I

here and there by any sportsman. Tangles of Dowagiac minnows, spoon hooks ranging in size to silver-backed number eights; three reels still carrying line of different weights, spinners, casting plugs, wobblers, floating baits, were spilled out upon the rough plank flooring v/here they might snag Rori badly if he roiled. I gathered them, intending to save him an accident.

With the miscellaneous assortment in my hands, however, I stopped dead. Something had caught my eye — something lying flush with the bottom of the lock box! I stared, and then swiftly tossed the hooks and other impedimenta upon the table. What I had glimpsed there in the box was a loose-leaf notebook of the sort used for recording laboratory data! And Rori scarcely could read, let alone write/

Feverishly, a riot of recognition, surmise, hope and fear bubbling in my brain, I grabbed the book and threw it open. At once I knew that this was the end. The pages were scribbled in pencil, but the handwriting was that precise chirography I knew as belonging to John Corliss Cranmer, the scientist!

”... Could he not have obeyed

my instructions! Oh, God! This,..”

These were the words at top of the first page which met my eye.

Because knowledge of the circumstances, the relation of which I pried out of the reluctant Rori only some days later when I had him in Mobile as a police witness for the sake of my friend’s vindication, is necessary to understanding, I shall interpolate.

Rori had not told me everything. On his late visit to the vicinage of Dead House he saw more. A crouching figure, seated Turk fashion on top of the wall, appeared to be writing industriously. Rori recognized the man as Cranmer, yet did not hail him. He had no opportunity.

Just as the Cajan came near, Cranmer rose, thrust the notebook, which had rested across his knees, into the box. Then he turned, tossed outside the wall both the locked box and a ribbon to which was attached the key.

Then his arms raised toward heaven. For

SAVE GAS • • Up f® 1 Galiosi in Every 4

33J#fe.u5&^^'';#;#!!§-<j».%^'fe#j!^l^ife?

;j^i|ijai^;teac3^J»fcaq3fe4iii4;^!(?-^^

i3Si'^;iijj,jf C?iir{)ltf.jB^ -rstf^rijjg

jvsji#iJi<«.'(ss;i5if«rjy»i'i;',d<^^®®5

' -t'^:

\ -j;

^-ot:

103 Northampton St, Boston 16, Mass.

YOU can check your engine condition ot aU times, and ii it is not operating efficiently, Mtle-OMeter will tell you how to correct the condition.

DON’T DELAY ORDER TODAY FOR


TEACHES rou how to drive economic aliy — eliminates the Jock Rabbit starts and possing on hilts — > tbol's where you really drink up fuel.

PERFORMANCE chorts and sug> gestions ore ea» closed with every meter, enabling you to deteroune bow mony miles per gallon you ore getting, ond what odjustments to moke to in-* creose your mile* age.

4. SIMPLY mount meter on wind-: shield frame or on dashboard I area to suit your convenience with *> the oid of mount- ^ ing brackets that. con be bent into practically any position.

World's largest Producer ol Tune-Up 6auges

©J951 Gate Hall

Engineering, Inc.



Too Often I nd icati SLL HEALTH

Watch yourself for unusual aches and pains. Such disturbances as pains in back, hips and legs, unusual tiredness, nervousness, dizziness, physical inability or sleeplessne-ss often may be traced to glandular inflammation.

The Excelsior Institute, a medical institution devoted exclusively to the treatment of diseases of older men, has a revealing FREE Book. It tells how many hundreds of men yearly are finding soothing and comforting relief from their ailments and a new outlook on life. This FREE Book gives factual knowledge that could prove of utmost importance in the tater years of your Uie. No Obligation. Address

Neglect ons of

Excelsior Institute, Dept. 7701, Excelsior Springs, Mo.



Choice of full front and rear seat covers or split front teats Leopard Skin effect on colorful plastic. • Water«proof autd Stain proof, • Comfortable and Cool • Easy to attach — elastic ties held securely. You must be satisfied oe Money Back! Front or rear seat only $2.98 each or PUIX. SET for $5.00. Order now. Enclose payment or pay postman plus postal charges. Specify. — — j Lexington Ave.,

Learn Profitable Profession in 90 days at Home

MEN AND WOMEN, 13 to 60. Many Swedlsb. Massage graduates make big money! Large full time \ Incomes from doctors, hospitals, sanatoriums, clubs ^ or private practice. Others made good money In

spare time. Prepare for future security by training at home and qualifying for Diploma. Anatomy charts and 32-page Illustrated Book FREE I The College of Swedish Mossoge Dept. i95-R, 41 E. PearsoRp Chicago 11

FREE— Amazing Book on

RHEUMATISM, ARTHRITIS

If you suffer the aches, pains and discomforts of Rheumatism, as manifested In ARTHRITIS. NEURITIS. SCIATICA, or LUMBAGO, send today for the FREE Book. It reveals important facts about why dru^ and medici^ give only temporary relief without removing causes. Explains fully a proven, specialized system of treatment that tnay save you ye^s of gfistress. No obUgatioa. Write for this FREE Book todayl SALL CLINIC. DeDt> 16, Excelsior Spnngs* Mo*



No experience needed to earn big daily commissions. Bea direct factory representative of the world’s largest exclusive UNION LABEL Book Match manufactoi'er. Prospects everywhere. Feature Glamour Girls, Hillbillies, acenics and dozens of other styles— Double Books— Jumbo Bwks— nearly 100 color combinations. New, bigger portfolio makes this fastest seUing line a real profit maker for you.

Write TODAY for full details..

IHimilMfmTgTTg

^Dpt. 5-1251, 7S2S 5. Greenwood Ave.,Chicagol9, Illinois Soast Sslosmen* (vriM Box lG87,Ban Joto, Caii^

five seeonds he seemed to invoke the mercy of Power beyond ail of man’s scientific prying. And finally he leaped, inside....!

Rori did not climb to investigate. He knew that directly below this portion of wall lay the mud sink into which he had thrown the chunks of meat!

VIII

n^HIS is a true transcription of the state- -L ment I inscribed, telling the sequence of actual events at.Dead House. The original of the statement now lies in the archives of the detective department.

Cranmer’s notebook, though written in a precise hand, yet betrayed the man’s insanity by incoherence and frequent repetitions. My statement has been accepted now, both by alienists and by detectives who hacl entertained different theories in respect to the case. It quashes the noisome hints and suspicions regarding three, of the finest Americans who ever lived — and also one queer supposition dealing with supposed criminal tendencies in poor Joe, the octoroon

John Corliss Cranmer went insane for sufficient cause!

A S READERS of popular fiction know well, Lee Cranmer’s forte was the writing of what is called — among fellows in the craft — the pseudo-scientific story. In plain words, this means a yarn, based upon solid fact in the field of astronomy, chemistry, anthropology or whatnot, which carries to logical conclusion unproved theories of men who devote their lives to searching out further nadirs of fact.

In certain fashion these men are allies of science. Often they visualize something which has not been imagined even by the best of men from whom they secure dSta, thus opening new horizons of possibility. In a large way Juies Verne was one of these men in his day; Lee Cranmer bade fair to carry on the work in worthy fashion — ^work taken up for a period by an Englishman named Wells, but abandoned for stories of a different — ^and, in my humble opinion, less absorbing — type.

NOW, the pipe smoker’s dream come true!

fijipe§id pjwveA...

DR. PHiUP'S PIPi IS THE BESTf

The idea! pipe for the STEADY SMOKER, the NEW SMOKER and the man who doesn't like an ordinary pipe.

• NO BREAKING IN!

. READY-MADE CAKE!

• DOUBLE COOLING ACTION! CANNOT BURN THROUGH! FEATHER-WEIGHT!

• FLAT BASE, WILL NOT TIPI • FINEST QUALITY IMPORTED BRIAR!

• INTERCHANGEABLE CERAMIC FILTER BOWLS!

This crass section shows the interchangeable inner ceramic bowi which burns tobacco dry, cool and clean. The bowl acts as a nonburning sponge that absorbs ail of the tar and most of the nicotine. The metal radiator ring on top of the Dr. Philip's pipe is the only part that can get hot. It takes the heat from the ceramic and gives it off to the air FAST. The smoke circulates in the space between the inner bowi and the outer briar sheii, becoming COOL before you draw it. Your tobacco cannot get wet because cotton or paper tissue packed in the space below the inner bow! absorbs all of the saliva and condensation. Rotate the ceramic bowls over and over again as you would a set of ordinary pipes. Dr. PHILIP'S pipe is EASY to CLEAN. There is no need to knock this pipe against any object to get out the ash. It does not form a cake. There is no need to rest the Dr. PHILIP'S pipe for cooling or drying. It has a constant capacity. The SHORT SMOKE MODEL will hold enough tobacco for a pleasure packed smoke of 15 to 23 minutes and the LONG SMOKE MODEL will last from 45 minutes to a full hour!

THE LONGER LASTING PIPE— YOU GET 4 EXTRA BOWLS!


*"''‘"*BOWLS only $450

4 EXTRA

iom SMOKE MODEL

4 extS^bowls only $5.50

if net satisfied that this is the most amazing pipe you have ever owned, return within ten days and your money wii! be refunded!


270 Pork Avenue New York!7, New York

Please send me postpaid... DR. PHILIP’S pipe(s). I eneiose

$ to cover the cost of the pipe(s) I have checked below.

□ SHORT SMOKE MODEL Including 4 EXTRA BOWLS @ $4.50

□ LONG SMOKE MODEL including 4 EXTRA BOWLS ® $5.50

NAME

ADDRESS.

I


!


(Sorry, no C.O.D.’s)

I

U-Bl I



PORTABLi GARAGE


USE IT ANYWHERE!

4 Goes wherever your c«kr goes 4 Folds compactly 4 Keeps railn« snow, dust, salt air, sun or sleet away • Will withstand Extreme cold without cracking and protects your car’s finish 4 Perfect for etor.'.ge of Cars, Furniture, Machinery Equipment 4 Durably con* structed of clear transparent — heavy gr.uge vinyl plastic that is long wearing and tough • Spring-tike elasticized bottom, holds securely in all kinds of weather 4 Fits all makes and models 4 Direct from manufacturer 4 Enclose check or money order, or sent C.O.D,


Dept. 398, 430 Lexington Ave., New York 17, N. Y.

Free for Asthma

If you su^er with attacks of Asthma and choke and gasp for breath, if restful sleep is difiicult because of the struggle to breathe, don’t fail to send at once to the Frontier Asthma Companv for a FREE trial of the FRONTIER ASTHMA MEDICINE, a preparation for temporary symptomatic relief of paroxysms of Bronchial Asthma. No matter where you live or whether you have faith in any medicine under the sun, send today for this free trial. It will cost you nothing.

Frontier Asthma Co. 406-J Frontier Bldg, 462 Niagara St. Buffalo 1, N. Y.

Make money. Know how to break and train horses. Wriie today for this boot FREE, together with special oiler of a course in Animal Breeding. If you are interested In Gaitlng and Hiding the saddld horso, check here ( ) Do it today — now.

BEERY SCHOOL OF HORSEMANSHIP Dept« 8412 Pleasant Hill, Ciilv

EXCHANGE NECKTIES! Send us 5 ties in good condition that you dislike. We'll mail you 5 different cleaned ties we received from someone else. Then you pay postman $1.00 plus postage. If you indicate color or style preference, we'll try to satisfy. TIE-X-CHANGE, 5458 N. 5fh ST., PHILADELPHIA 20, PA.


Only

o 1 o 1

mpaper and

New!

pencil \

Handy!

in one! \

A compute writing outfit. All contained in a Single handsome plastic and gold* plated automatic pencil that fits

f 'oeket or purse, yet t holds 36 Inches of memo paper. A flick of the cap and the paper appears. Tear It off and you're ready to write!

ORDER NOW— only $2 each, plus i9c for postage and handling. RefillB— set of 6 rolls, 25c. (On pre-paid orders add ISe for poBtage and mailing.) If not satisfied, return within tO days and your money will be refunded.


270 Park Avenue, New York 17, N. Y,

Lee wrote three novels, all published, which dealt with such subjects — two of the three secured from his own father’s labors, and the other speculating upon the discovery and possible uses of inter-atomic energy. Upon John Corliss Cranmer’s return from Prague that fatal winter, the father informed Lee that a greater subject than any with which the young man had dealt, now could be tapped.

Cranmer, senior, had devised a way in which the limiting factors in protozoic life and growth, could be nullified; in time, and with cooperation of biologists who specialized upon karyokJnesis and embryology of higher forms, he hoped — to put the theory in pragmatic terms — to be able to grow swine the size of elephants, quail or woodcock with breasts from which a hundredweight of white meat could be cut away, and steers whose dehorned heads might butt at the third story of a skyscraper!

Such result would revolutionize the methods of food supply, of course. It also would hold out hope for all undersized specimens of humanity — provided only that if factors inhibiting growth could be deleted, some method of stopping gianthood ilso could be developed.

Cranmer the elder, through use of an undescribed (in the notebook) growth medium of which one constituent was agarigar, and the use of radium emanations, had succeeded in bringing about apparently unrestricted growth in the paramcecium protozoan, certain of the vegetable growths (among which were bacteria), and in the -unorphous cell of protoplasm known as the amoeba — the last a single cell containing only neucleolus, neucleus, and a space known as the contractile Vacuole which somehow aided in throwing off particles impossible to assimilate directly. This point may be remembered in respect to the piles of lumber left near the outside walls surrounding Dead House!

When Lee Cranmer and his wife came south to visit, John Corliss Cranmer showed his son an amoeba — normally an organism visible under low-power microscope — which he had absolved from natural growth inhibitions. This amoeba, a rubbery, amorOOZE

S9

phous mass of protoplasm, was of the size then of a large beef liver. It could have been held in two cupped hands, placed side by side.

"How large could it grow?” asked Lee, wide-eyed and interested.

"So far as I know,” answered the father, "there is no limit — now! It might, if it got food enough, grow to be as big as the Masonic Temple!

"But take it out and kill it. Destroy the organism utterly — burning the fragments — else there is no telling what might happen. The amoeba, as I have explained, reproduces by simple division. Any fragment remaining might be dangerous.”

Lee took the rubbery, translucent giant cell — but he did not obey orders. Instead of destroying it as his father had directed, Lee thought out a plan. Suppose he should grow this organism to tremendous size? Suppose, when the tale of his father’s accomplishment were spread, an amoeba of many tons weight could be shown in evidence? Lee, of somewhat sensational cast of mind, determined instantly to keep secret the fact that he was not destroying the organism, but encouraging its further growth. Thought of possible peril never crossed his mind.

He arranged to have the thing fed — allowing for normal increase of size in an abnormal thing. It fooled him only in growing much more rapidly. When he came back from Cuba the amoeba practically filled the whole of the mud sink hollow. He had to give it much greater supplies....

The giant cell came to absorb as much as two hogs in a single day. During daylight, while hunger still was appeased, it never emerged, however. That remained for the time that it could secure no more food near at hand to satisfy its ravenous and increasing appetite.

Only instinct for the sensational kept Lee from telling Peggy, his wife, all about the matter. Lee hoped to spring a coup which would immortalize his father, and surprise his wife terrifically. Therefore, he kept his own counsel — and made bargains with the Cajan, Rori, who supplied food daily for the shapeless monster of the pool.

The tragedy itself came suddenly and

unexpectedly. Peggy, feeding the two Gordon setters that Lee and she used for quail hunting, was in the Lodge yard before sunset. She romped alone, as Lee himself was dressing.

Of a sudden her screams cut the still air! Without her knowledge, ten-foot pseudopods — those flowing tentacles of protoplasm sent forth by the sinister occupant of the pool — slid out and around her putteed ankles.

For a moment she did not understand. Tlien, at first suspicion of the horrid truth, her cries rent the air. Lee, at that time struggling to lace a pair of high shoes, straightened, paled, and grabbed a revolver as he dashed out.

In another room a scientist, absorbed in his notetaking, glanced up, frowned, and then — recognizing the voice — shed his white gown and came out. He was too late to do aught but gasp with horror.

In the yard Peggy was half engulfed in a squamous, rubbery something which at first he could not analyze.

Lee, his boy, was fighting with the sticky folds, and slowly, surely, losing his own grip upon the earth!

IX

JOHN CORLISS CRANMER was by no means a coward, he stared, cried aloud, then ran indoors, seizing the first two weapons which came to hand— a shotgun and hunting knife which lay in sheath in a cartridged belt across hook of the hall-tree. The knife was ten inches in length and razor keen.

Cranmer rushed out again. He saw an indecent fluid something — which as yet he had not had time to classify — slumping itself into a six-foot-high center before his very eyes!

It looked like one of the micro-organisms he had studied! One grown to frightful dimensions. An amceba!

There, some minutes suffocated in the rubbery folds — ^yet still apparent beneath the glistening ooze of this monster — ^were two bodies.

They were dead. He knew it. Nevertheless he attacked the flowing, senseless




INDIGESTION?

THANK HEAVENS! Most attacks are just acid indigestion. When it strikes, take Beli-ans tablets. They contain the' fastest-acting medicines known to doctors for the relief of heartburn, eas and similar distress. Send postal to Bell & Co., Orangeburg, N. Y. for free lucky rabbits' root and sample of Bell-ans.

I keeps pencil handy ‘*Rite-now*'

I where needed. Eosily attached without fools to telephones, typewriters, I, adding machines, office desks, auto I i panels, kitchen cabinets, etc. At- | troctive, duroble, inexpensive time and temper Price 2Sc postpaid, five for dollar. Guaranteed.

wmim^


OD CKdlt. Your own boss. 1437 Dealers sold $5,000 to $28,500 in 1050; their averaj?e $6,704. We supply stoclsa, equipment on credit. 200 home necessities. Selling esi^rieDcd unnecessary tc start. Wonderful opportunity to ovm pleasant, profitable business backed by world wide Industry. Write RAWLEIGH’S, DEPT. L-U-PBL, Freeport, lltl.iois.

fiSAiCE YOUR HOBBY PAY!

start PrefiUalt Ml tim nr pwt tiau aaimsl tatima. l<t faoMwt SflfAU) tnaa skow yto 110 maji to tera y«« (no of xiinuic fato eatlii


AHSMAl LOVERS ASSOCIATiON sox 0157 — TAazAaiA, canfowte

$200 A WEEK INCOME ASSURED

No Selling. Profit-tested idea with uniaue approach. First ti^ ofi^ered. Bi&ereatl Details $1.00.


Dept. 767, P. O. Box 4692 San Francisco. Calif.

-MONEY FOR YOUWe pay $2 to $300 Each for HUNDREDS of Old or Odd Coins. INDIAN HEAD, I^COLN and FOREIGN COINS wanted. Keep ALL untU posted. Send 20 cents for NEW ILLUSTRATED COIN VALUE BOOK. 4x6. Buying and Selling Prices. 40 years in business. gm, COIN EXCHANGE, (44) LE ROY, N. Y.

AT LAST— A REVOLUTIONARY NEW HOME SPOT REMOVER

It’s Marvelous! It’s Magic!

BemOTes paint, oil. grease, ink, lipstick, tar and other organic and inorganic matter. Safe on all fabries—safe on all colors— SAJb'E for home usel Leaves no odor. Send $1.00 for 2 oz. bottle today. Write

WARREN’S SPOT REMOVER

SSO N. Corueli Ft. Wayne, Indiana

Learn Facts About

Colitis and Piles

FREE BOOK — Explains Causes, Effects and Treatment

Avoid ^Dangers >f Delay

Learn about Colon troubles. Stomach conditions, Piles and other rectal conditions. Causes, effects and treatment. 164-pag:e book sent FREE. McCleary Clinic and Hospital, 1249 Elms Blvd.. Excelsior SnrlnEs, Mo.

monster with his knife. Shot would do no good. And he found that even the deep, terrific slashes made by his knife closed together in a moment and healed. The monster was invulnerable to ordinary attack!

A pair of pseudo pods sought out his ankles, attempting to bring him low. Both of these he severed — and escaped. Why did he try? He did not know. The two whom he had sought to rescue were dead, buried under folds of this horrid thing he knew to be his own discovery and fabrication.

Then it was that revulsion and insanity came upon him.

There ended the story of John Corliss Cranmer, save for one hastily scribbled paragraph — evidently written at the time Rori had seen him atop the wall.

May we not supply with assurance the intervening steps?

Cranmer was known to have purchased a whole pen of hogs a day or two following the tragedy. These animals never were seen again. During the time the wall was being constructed is it not reasonable to assume that he fed the giant organism within — to keep it quiet? His scientist brain must have visualized clearly the havoc and horror which could be wrought by the loathsome thing if it ever were driven by hunger to flow away from the Lodge and prey upon the countryside!

With the wall once in place, he evidently figured that starvation or some other means which he could supply would kill the thing. One of the means had been made by setting fire to several piles of the disgorged timbers; probably this had no effect whatever.

The amoeba was to accomplish still more destruction. In the throes of hunger it threw its gigantic, formless strength against the house walls from the inside; then every edible morsel within was assimilated, the logs, rafters and other fragments being worked out through the contractile vacuole.

During some of its last struggles, undoubtedly, the side wall of brick was weakened — ^not to collapse, however, until the giant amoeba no longer could take advantage of the breach.

In final death lassitude, the amoeba stretched itself out in a thin layer over the

OOZE


ground. There it succumbed, though there is no means of estimating how long a time intervened.

The last paragraph in Cranmer’s notebook, scrawled so badly that it is possible some words I have not deciphered correctly, read as follows:

"In my tvork 1 have found the means of creating a monster. The unnaturd thing, in turn, has destroyed my work and those whom I held dear.

It is in vain that I assure myself of innocence of spirit. Mine is the crime of presumption. Now, as expiation — worthless though that 7nay be — I give myself...

It is better not to think of that last leap, and the struggle of an insane man in the grip of the dying monster.

STATEMENT OF THE OWNERSHIP, MANAGEMENT. AND CIRCULATION, required "by the Act of Congress of August 24, 1912. as amended by the Acts of March 3, 1933, and July 2. 1946, of WEIRD TALES, published bi-monthly at New York, N. Y. for October 1, 1951.

1. The names and addresses of the publisher, editor, managing editor, and business managers are:

Publisher, SHORT STORIES, Inc.,

9 Rockefeller Plaza, New York 20, N. Y, Editor, D. Mcllwraith,

9 Rockefeller Plaza, New York 20, N, Y. Managing editor. None.

Business manager, William J. Delaney,

9 Rockefeller Plaza, New York 20, N. Y,

2. The owner is: (If owned by a corporation, its name and address must be rtated and also immediately thereunder the names and addresses of stockholders owning or holding 1 percent or more of total amount of stock. If not owned by. a corporation, the names and addresses of the individual owners must be given. If owned by a partnership or other unincorporated firm, its name and address, as well as that of each individual member, must be given.)

Short Stories, Inc.,,

9 Rockefeller Plaza, New York 20, N. Y.

W. J. Delaney,

9 Rockefeller Plaza, New York 20, N. Y.

S. The known bon^olders, mortgagees, and other security holders owning or holding 1 percent or more of total amount of bonds, mortgages, or other securities are: (If thei'e are none, so state.) None.

4. Paragi*apbs 2 and 3 include, in cases where the stockholder or security holder appears upon the books of the company as trustee or in any other fiduciary relation, the name of the person or corporation for whom such trustee is acting; also the statements in the two paragraphs show the affiant’s full knowledge and belief as to the eircumfitances and conditions under which stockholders and security holders who do not appear upon the books of the company as trustees, hold stock and securities in a capacity other than that of a bona fide owner,

W. J. DELANEY, (Signature of President)

Sworn to and subscribed before me this 1 day of October, 1951,

tSEAL]

HENRY J, PAUROWSKI Notary Public, State of New York No. 03-3039000 Qualified in Bronx County Certs, filed with N. Y. Co. Glk. & Reg,

<(My commission espixes March 30, 19o3.)

Knowledge That Has Endured With the Pyramids

WHENCE came the knowledge that built the Pyramids? Where did the first builders io the Nile Valley: acquire their astounding wisdom that started man on his upward dimb? Did their knowledge come from a race now submerged beneath the sea? From what concealed source came the wisdom that produced such characters as Amenhotep IV, Leonardo da Vinci, Isaac Newton, and a host of others?

Today it is known that they discovered and used certain Secret Methods for the development of their inner power of mind. They truly learned to master life. This secret art of living has been preserved and handed down throughout the ages and today is extended to those who dare use its profound principles to meet and solve the problems of life in these complex times.

This Sealed Book — FREE

The R-Osicrucians (not a religious organization) have prepared an unusual book, which will be sent free to sincere inquirers, in which the method of receiving these principles and natural laws is explained. Write today for your copy of this sealed book. Possibly it will be the first step whereby you can accomplish many of your secret ambitions and the building of personal achievements... Address your inquiry to: Scribe D.G.K.

The Rosicmdafis

(AMORC)

San Jose, California



INTERSTATE TRAINING ^SERVICE

- -.'-.Schoorof P/ostlcs^'.....

Tx-^'PORftAND' 1 i; OREGON

Dept. C-11N

There Are RICH OPPORTUNITIES tot MEN And WOMEN with "taow-how" la Phuttoe. Intentate'a amazing new P]a*tics course tells and shows how to make hundreds of fast aelUng Items out of Plasties. Gives complete training In fabrication, casting, lam* ination. molding, etc., in simple, easy. ttep'by>atep language and pictures.

START A PLASTICS BUSINESS OP YOUR OWN. Mo other Industry bolds «uch promise for the future. You can make big toonty manufactur* Ing novelties, toys, signs, etc.. In your own home in spare or full time. Don't wait! Learn NOW how Interstate’s Plastics Training qualifies you for success in the plasties field.

Wrlfe for FREf Informafion fodayl

BABY LiaHTER

Not a Toy...Btit a BEAUTIFUL, LONG LASTING PRECISION MADE Small Scale LIGHTER Smathnally Hewt Makes a Wonderful Gift MONEY BACK CUARANTCE IF NOT COMPUTIIY SATISFIED

finbekeYabh Offer!

CNICKfiL $100

IPRECAtt)

DE LUXB MODEL (ALUCATOR $150 R) IpfiEMiO

QUAtITY IIGHTtRS 7471 MELROSE AVf., tO$ ANOEttS 46, CAIIF.

/

Quick

relief with Dent's. Use Dent’s Tooth Gum or Dent's Tooth Drops for cavity toothaches. Use Dent's Dental Poultice for pain or soreness in gums or teeth. At ail drug stores.


Home study course now available at America's oldest school teaching only Hypnotism and Autosuggestion with


“Diploma Issued Upon Completion"


120 Central Park So., N. Y. 19. N. Y.

Free circular upon request. Dept. 21

k wvi Hot to;TB

Ef you believe that you have au invention, you should find out how k) protect it. Wo are registered Patent Attorneys. Send for copy of »ur patwt Booklet "How to Protect Your iavenUon." and an "Inrention Becoid" form. No obligation. They ace yours for the asking.

McMORROW, BERMAN & DAVIDSON

Regletered Patent Attorneys

1801 Vietor Building Washington t«

D. C.

RUPTURED?

Get Relief This Proven Way

Why try to worry along with trusses that gouge your flesh — press heavily on hips and spine — enlarge opening — fail to hold rupture 7 You need the Cluthe. No leg-straps nr cutting belts. Automatic adjustable pad holds at opening — follows every body movement with instant increased support in case of strain. Cannot slip whether at work or play. Light. Waterproof. Can be worn in bath. Send tor amazing FREE book. ** Advice To Ruptured** and details of liberal truthful 60-day trial offer. Also endorsementa from grateful users in your neighborhood. Write:

C^VTHB SONS* Dept 15, Bloomfield New Jersey.

DL

{Continued from page 6)

The Editor, Weird Tales 9 Rockefeller Plaza, New York 20, N. Y.

The return of Clark Ashton Smith to your pages in story form was a great surprise, and a pleasant one. His fiction has been all too sparse during the past several years. ‘’The Metamorphosis of Earth" gives rise to a hope that we may soon read m-ore of Averoigne, Xiccarph, ftothique, or others of Smith’s exotic worlds of the imagination. The present story luas too reminiscent of the "monster invasion" stories of the early thirties, but the very fact that Smith is once more represented in WT is a cause for hope.

You have no doubt received many suggestions as to what stories to reprint, and here are a few more: "The Enchantress of Sylaire" and "Who Are the Living" by C. A. Smith, "Dread Summons” by Paul Ernst, "Lynne Foster Is Dead" by H. P. Lovecraft, Henry KuttnePs stories <of Elak of Atlantis, "The Sea Witch" by Nietzin Dyalhls, "Laocoon" by Bassett Morgan.

You have the richest back- file in the hisstory of fantasy to pick from, and with one or two (but surely no more) reprints in each issue, WT will be 'on the top of the heap.

Robert E. Briney, 561 W. Western Avenue, Muskegon, Michigan

The Editor, Weird Tales 9 Rockefeller Plaza, New York 20, N. Y.

I would like to tell you that I appreciate the height to which your magazine has soared in the past years, and with the ease that it has stayed as the number one magazine in the minds of many countless hundreds of readers.

Your last issue was up to the usual par with its host of many fine stories. I would rate them in this order: First, I would give honors to that superb writer of the weird and macabre, H, P. Lovecraft, for loriting


that terrific story "Dagon”; next best on my | list is Seabury Quinn’s "Fling the Dust Aside", a truly fine story; next on my list is "Hideaway”, a good story but a bit long. The other stories were good, but I am sorry to say that they would not actually raise the high standard of your magazine.

Your poems were exceptionally good for that particular issue.

One thing that would cut the number of readers of your mag would be the omission of the Eyrie. This I hope you will regard as a permanent fixture. If it were omitted, the readers would lose their chance to express thetnselves in what they think would be for the betterment of the magazine.

Weird Tales has the quality that has made me a faithful reader as millions of others like myself have become after trying other mags and rejecting them for the quality that is only found in Weird Tales.

Robert Fazio, Glendale, N. Y.

The Editor, Weird Tales 9 Rockefeller Plaza, New York 20, N. Y.

What a Buyl These are surplus atocfe fi'om a big supply llrm. Sturdy, serviceable work shirts, though used, have been washed, sterilized and reconditioned. Every shirt of long-wearing wash materials. Blue, tan, white. Strongly sewn; reinforced stitching at points of strain. Money back guarantee with every order!

WORK PANTS TO MATCH....99c

Blue, Tan, White. Measure waist; leg.

COVERAllS 1.95 (3 for 5.49)

Blue, Tan, White. Send ch^t measure.

WHITE SHOPCOATS, 1.79 (3 for s.oo)

Send chest measure.

SEND NO MONEY!

or town, size and color choice, (also state 2nd color choice}. Pay postman plus postage. Or. send Cash. Check, or Money Order and we ship prepaid. Keep 10 days. Return for full refund of purchase price if not fully satisfied. Order TODAY at Our Rlskl ^

^ YOUNG PRODUCTS

Dept T J

',2605 ELMHURST. '• DETROIT

6. MICH.

79i

3 FOR 2.29

My hands are still icy and teeth still chattering after reading Howard’s, "Pigeon’s From Hell". Holy Moses and suffering cats, it’s been a long time since I had a story raise the goose pimples on my flesh and ice water run dong my spine and Fve been a reader for years. My hat’s off to that guy and may you print many more of his stories if he can put out more like this. This is the first letter 1 have ever written to any magazine and although 1 have been writing stories for years ( not the weird type) 1 have never had my name in print before.

How these writers write weird and horror stories and still keep from going goofy is beyond me. Maybe you may see me in print yet, if I can get up enough nerve to haul the Cellar in the Vasty deep thing out long enough to get it finished. But! love to read your magazine, and keep up with the best of the spooks and demons, vampires, etc.

Florence Trento, Sherman Oaks, Cal.

• The quUk^ low-cest WAYNE way to a High School edocation. No dosses; pleosont, spore-time home froinms; college preparatory; standard texts; credit for post schootiag. If you hove finished 8tfa grade ond ore ever 17 years of oge, write

2$27 SHEFFIELD AVENUE, CaUiog HC-2. CHICAGO 14. 1

ED J5ALE. TOP RADIO GUITARIST, TEACHER OP HUNDREDS OP GUITARISTS, PROFESSIONALS, WILL POSITIVELY TEACH YOU TO PLAY A BEAUTIFUL SONG THE FIRST DAYI AND ANT SONG BY EAR OR NOTE IN 7 DAYSI His 64 page secret system contalna 52 life eize photographs. 47 chord and finger placing charts along -with complete ea.sy to learn Instructions on— How la tune, build chords, keep time, bass runs, dance chords, swing, over lOO leam-qulck examples, etc. plus 50 Popular and Westana songs with 1st, 2nd, 3rd guitar, words and music. ABSOLUTELY NO previous music knowledge needed! Imagine how surprised and) pi-oud your friends will be when they hear you play their favorittt songs on Uie guitar. SEIKD NO MONEY: Just name and address to ED SALE and pay postman 31.59 plus C.O-D. and postage or send Sl.SU and I pay postage.

ID SALE Dept. PF-12 Point Ploewi

$g.59



WHO'S WHO IN RAILROADING

IN HtmTH AMENIOA

Think of it... the Eleventh Edition of this blue booh of railroading personnel famous since 1885, now available to readers of Railroad Magazine at this saving.

Concise biographical sketches of 5,650 leaders in all phases of railroading. Professiana! and personal data included.

Order today with check or money order from


270 Park Ave. New York 17, N. Y.

50 %


now only

Plus 1 5c for postage and handling

Ft*©©B®®k

FrtSUNT BIRS3S, ANiSWALS, FISH

Yes.FREB, Explains TasidorEay, Telia how to learn at home by mail to mount birds, animals, heads... to TAN skins and furs. Great for MEN and BOYS. Fun I Also earn money in eparo time. WRITE TODAY — NOW — for frea book eontaintnir 100 game pictures. State AGS. N.W. School of Taxidomiy, Uept. 4212, Omaha, Neb.

HAIL

Postal

Today

Prepare for the big earning power of Diesel Trained Men. Start learning at home, in spare time. XJEI’s easy, practical training covers all ■phases of DIESEL engine operation, fuel systems, auxiliary equipment, repairs and maintenance. Also new Scientific Auto Motor Tuneup. After home course, you come to Chicago for actual practice in UEI’s modern shop under experienced instructors. GST ALL THE FACTS FREE. WRITS TODAY!

diIgsicn UTILITIES ENaiKEERIfIG WSTITUTE

2521 Sheffield Ave., Dept. DL-5 Chicago 14, Illinois

the Birds Fly South by Stanton A. Coblentz • Stanton Coblentz is a -Weird Tales favorite, an-d this story — ^published originally in 1945 — has a vast appeal for our sort of reader. Not only is it weird and bizarre in conception but it also has a good spicing of mystery and adventure, and the enthralling background of an American geological expedition in Afghanistan. Over the whole story broods Yulada, a stone goddess, Sardonic destiny, whose guiding hand will close the story.

DOUBLEDAY SCIENCE FICTION:

Rogue Queen by L. Sprague de Camp • Imaginative fiction at a very high level. The social customs and sex life of visitors from Earth horrify and fascinate a heroine of another planet — ^but she has to have the help of the Earthmen for her own preservation. There’s humor in this story, and suspense and warfare, an unusual — ^to say the least of it — heroine, and entertainment.

BL

For Sports — For Fun

V^orld's Finest "EM-GE"


"Shoot the Works" — safely — ^wlth this handsome blank pistol. Looks and sounds real enough for the FBI. But it can’t hold re^lar eartridgos. Six-shot magazine: safety catch. Precisionbuilt of carbon steel. 3%" long. A world-famous pistol, excellent

sio-M

!. He luxe model with pearl handle $15.00 100 blank cartridges

$1.S0

ORDER BY MAIL ' Ko Permit Reauired,

Send Check or Money Order Dealer Inquiries Invited

L* Gatef & Son, Dept. FG-2, 8S Chambers St., N.YtC.

The Puppet Masters by Robert A. Hanlein • An unidentified space ship lands in Iowa, w'ith results which— as told by one of the very top flight -authors in the field — ^leave the reader breathless. Very realistic, very' thrilling and full of spine-tinglers.

The Home of Many Worlds by Sam Merwin, Jr. • A very modern tantaiyzing science fiction thriller of the consequences following the visit of a newspaper v.mman and her teammate photographer to a mysterious old house on Sprindrift Key — a routine assignment which turned into fantastic adventure.



• Write to MARTIN WARE, SECRETARY •

• This is your club— a medium to help you and other fantasy and science-fiction fans get together. Readers wanted it — they wrote in telling us how much they would enjoy meeting others of similar tastes.

* Membership is very simple; just drop us a line, so that we can enroll you on the club roster, and publish your name and address in the magazine.

• A membership card carrying the above design — ^personal token of your fellowship with the weird and the fantastic — will be sent on request. (A stamped, addressed envelope should be enclosed.)


E. T. Booth, 18 Elibank Road, Eitham, S. E. G., Ix)ndon, England

Stewart Duncan, 41, Canal Road, Aberdeen, Scotland, Great Britain

C. E. Bush, 45 Trafalgar Road "VVest, Gorleston-on-Sea, Great Yarmouth, Norfolk, England James Lindsay, 14 Zion Lane, Attcrcliflee, Sheffield 9, Yonks, England

Jack V. Holmes, 4228 W. Pine Blvd., St. Louis 8, Missouri Floyd R. Spears, 3007 Date St., Riverside, California Thomas W. Tiayies, 15 West Rd., Mexboro, Yorkshire, England

Richard Wonnacott, Grand Marais, Manitoba, Canada Robert E. Briney, 541 W, Western Ave., Muskegon, Mich.

John B. Blake, c/o Miss Grace Lee, 43-06 — 45th St., L. I. C.. N. Y.

Ian Hamilton, 34 Murrayfield Ave., Stranrear, Wigtownshire, Scotland

Bill Jaubert, La Salle Military Acad., Oakdale, N, Y. Tom Popely, 68 Slialds Rd., Stobhill Gate, Morpeth, Northumberland, England

Bi’yan Popely, 68 Slialds Rd., Stobhill Gate, Morpeth, Northumberland, England

Ann Leppard, Leaver’s Cottage, Maidstone Rd., Hadlow, Kent, England

J. W. Gillam, 492, Butts Rd., Sholing, Southampton, Hampshire, England

Brian Shoesmith, 29, East Parade, Sowerby Bridge nr.

Halifax, Yorkshire, England Eric S. Carr, 2734909, Fusilier, M.T. Sect., Sch. of Inf., Warminster, Wiltshire, England Brian C. Wilkes, 13 Quay St., Newport, Isle of Wight, England

Harry C. Green, 22, Earlsmcad Rd., Handsworth, Birmingham 21, England

Ronald Boordman, 182 Shrewsbury St., Brook’s Bar, Manchester 16, England

L. A. Parker, 19 Trinity St., Leytonstone, London, E. 11, England

George S. Ferguson, 23, Iona St., Ibrox, Glasgow, Scotland ’•

Daniel Keir, 48 East Ave,, Uddingston, Glasgow, Scotland

Bernard Tarshis, 855 East 14th St., New York 9, N. Y,

30 ties $3.50 40 ties $3.75 50 ties $4.00

Postpaid

A beautiful and practical gilt!

chrome back 15'

bar.

This modern tie-rack is a handsome addition to a man's closet. Lets him see the tie that matches his suit. Individual plastic hangers threaded on Sturdy plastic mahogany

long holds 30 to 50 ties.

BELDING NOVELTIES, Dept fi

1372 West 111 St. Cleveland 2, Olise


If you have trouble with plates that slip and rock and cause sore gums — try Brimins Plasti-Liner.

One application makes plates he snugly and stay that way, because Brimms Plasti-Linei is a permanent reliner. It relines and refits loose plates in a way no powder or paste can do. Even oo old rubber plates you get good results six months CO a year or longer. YOU can eat anything s Simply lay soft strip of Piasti-Liner on troublesome upper or lower. Bite and it molds perfectly. Easy use, tasteless, odorless, harmless to you and your plates. Removable if desired. Money back xr cot completely satisfied. Ask your druggist I

: B Rl IVI MS PLASTte N E R

• Permanent venture' reliner ';

EAR NOISES?

If you suffer from those miserable ear noises and are Hard of Heairing- due to catarrh of the head, write us NOW for proof of the good results many people have reported after using our simple home treatment. NOTHING TO WEAR. Many past 70 report ear noises relieved and hearing improved. SEND NOW FOS PROOF AND 30 DAYS TRML OFFER.


BEPT. 2PF9 DAVENPORT, IOWA

FISHTAIL STYLS vith Diomothytt gctn

lew I'niazlng WeMderfiil Hem DIAMOTMYST

S/ UIjA '-'ic

DIAMONDS

PAWNBROKERS,

ATTENTIOM:

We vrgenJfy recommend thef yov order a sample o^ thts amocing product to hove in yoof shop for eonpofison with o genvioe diamond. Mgtry pawnbrolrers have pold out monev under the impres^ sloii that they were loaning oo diamonds when hi reoiity, the people were offering Piomothysh

^24 Per Carat

Hauler than ilreone/ keep their brliHancc fore>er< DUtnoihjrati*.T on the ji/afi’s icale of hardn«M,and diamonds sre,9,

The greatest gem discovery in history, which is the result of experimentation of one of America's largest corporations, brings you Diamothjst, a gent ti'Ub a refractory index higher than, and a dispersion factor greater than a diamond. Its refract^y index is about 10%1iigher than diamonds. It may seem fantastte to you as it did to ns, but now you can have a gem tliat looks like a diamond and is actually far more brilliant than a diamond» and even many PAWNBROKERS have mistaken it for a real dUimond. Vet you can have it at about 1/30 the cost of a genuine diamond. (Buy a Diamoihyst instead of a diamond and save the dilfereDCS.)

Only a carat, tax included. 1110 hundreda of dollars thus Mved will go far toward buying a home. You need no longer invest lar^e sums of money m a tiny stone, the value of which is detennuied largely by scarcUy and coiitroL YOU can enjoy the beauty and prestige and tl^ envy of your friends with a stone that only an expert working under a good light can detect as not being t real diamonds

COMPARE:

REFRACTORY INDEX OF DtAMOTHYST IS BETWEEN 2.62 and 2.9D at compored to DIAMOND'S 2.42, DISPERSION OP * DIAMOTHYST RANGES BETWEEN 0.155 ood0.20S

in comporuon to the

DIAMOND'S

0.025.

MONEY BACK GUARANTEE WITH A 30DAY TRIAL IN YOUR HOME.

YOU ARS THI SOU JUOOe

U Iki* y«« or* «%. — «p to iO gsroH 01 (24 0 cars*

toet it yo* «r* dinoittfied for any rsoioo wtiahMvar, yoo •nay r«(wr« th* bleoiolhyst (or 100^ CAM tmiND WlTHOVr OUEtnOM

Y»w MW order »>«- in t, 2, 3, 4, (

Toko ti)« priM of (ko riogt ikom oVevo in Hto I eora> rito and odd (24 for oodi oddiilonol carol yow vrofll. ORDE9 TODAY.

DON'T OSAYI

A beautiful engagement ring made vith « Diamothyst presents to any girl will inspire her devotion, xoa can buy many things with the hundreds of dollars thus saved. Each Diamotbyst ia. perfectly cut, with full S8 beets per brilliant stone. Legally we cannot refer to the Diamothyst as a diamond, so we ask you to order in the 3 most popular diamond shapes — namely the round or hlilLLIANT, the obktfig or EMERALD and the oval or cuts.

You may order these gema for aettiae by ^ur local, &iendly, trustworthy jeweW, who wiU be glad to verify your par^aac, or yon can oeder dteia in too mouotisga shown' above.

ST* 9 There u bo charge for mountM. ing i)ian*«6y*swm Your Jewelry

''-they tv'iil be mounted al^Iutely FREEl

R£€AL GEM CO.{ Dept. 120, 318 Market $t., Newark, New Jersey Tm! Mcam rnUi tny aetoailOB of DIAMOTHYST c«*a aj 1 ha*a SeOlaaud Salow. If net I 4aliekte0, 1 may aaiuni ih«<B wiilUa lOdojuffor full rafund. My anfor aUa tei..,.

^ □Iaae)oiatS.Iviapay.i>wtmaabBianca{ditajHWtas*..

, 0 1 aaenHw f«alt prtea, aesd poataca p^pald.

'.MOUNTED CEMSi

Q A. I Carat Dlamathyat natitall a(yt« aal In t*.EL. whllasaM moantlaj

□ B. 1 Carat Modam GypoY vlih DIAMOTHYST Cam aet 4a 14.kt.

Wbiu or yrilaw mounting

I O C. 1 Carat rrlneOM Earring! HS.OB

□ D. I Carat Diamothyst!«t in maaeuIitM Box Style whltaoryattoor foM mvunUng.CMM

' O C. Cold Chalnasd Craoa withCDiamotbyatGami $7S.OO

• Q Tandaot with giJdafaaln.Icnrat Diamoalnrot, only............................ i0S.ee

cxai ADOmONAL CARAT *24. atyto oa abewa oo modal ONHOONTED CEAtS, O T Carat S24.00 Q 1 Carat S48.90 O S Carat ff8.«e, ataN.

EACH ADDITIONAL CARAT 93*.

NOTBi A fS deposit mtist iKvom>ONy tack C.O.D. ordtr. AUpHcoaUalaoludod.

ASfiJiSSS

Crrv gaaB„,„j

k n9?¥<(r/«44pA'*ka*»riildH^.r*a4(M.->ytr4p«^ps^- $SNT ON ^f®OVAh. I

1 esret...f43.0G

9 carate €6.00

9 eArnu 80.00

4 eArAte...... 114.00

O. MODERN GYPSY. with Otanrtoehyat gem

t eemt.....065.00

S eante 89.00

II3«0O

®

Oa PRINCESS EARRINGS

plaair rwU the rnuxtralkiA htr* •t tho new wine-eypa oaTety mounting that wao caey to pul «a and to vary condotWbU to wear, rieaea rpreify in youT •rdtr if you wiati earring* for fnvrad aar*. There f* f>a wir#

•m. 884.00 pale

, dl. BOX STYLE, viU) Dfemothytt ’ gem

1 earns., f €0.00 Searata.. S4.00 9 CAralt. 108*00

••COLD CHAIN ANi> CROSS with 9 Diamo* thftfgmA,..,078.00

BOW TO MEASVnB FINGER SIZE

(1) Cut fiat, stilT cardboard into a long, naf* row wedge. 'Take ring tbal file and is not bent;

(2) Slip it over narrow end of card until it atops-^o not force. Draw lines at both rideo of ring. Send us the cardboard. Do not send your own ring; nor use string to Bteasure,

YOU

"GIVING AWAY

mST QUALITY FULL FASHIONFD

NYLONS

Good

Guaranteed by <2 Housekeeping

d£40VERTIStO

Imagine the money you can make! Sounds impossible, but that's all they cost if they run or snag within guarantee period up to THREE WHOLE MONTHS! What's more, this amazing low cost INCLUDES your commission, huge bonus and even the postage! Here is a miracle come true!

This isn't selling. It's giving something away. Yet, YOU get paid for doing it! Yes, you not only pocket an advance liberal cash commission but can easily earn a big bonus that increases your earnings up to 40%.

Women today buy over TWO MILLION PAIRS of nylons EVERY DAY, Many women average a pair a week. Stockings are bought more often than any other type of wearing apparel. Think how delighted any woman would be to learn about the amazing Kendex nylons.

It makes no difference whether you ever sold before or not. We don’t care if you are 18 or 80— whether you have one hour or 50 hours a week to spare. You can make a wonderful steady income either full or spare time.

FR

ESTOCK

I

I

I

I

I

I

I

I

I

I

I

I

I

I

I

I

I

I

I

I

I

I

■

Date.

Kendex Corporation Babylon 69, N. Y.

Send me, absolutely free and postage prepaid, your complete money-making outfit including free sample stocking. It is understood I am under no obligation and if I am not satisfied with the money I make, I will throw away the whole outfit.

Name.

Address. City....

Zone.... State.

There is nothing for you to buy or deliver. You don’t risk a dime. Pay nothing now or later. Just mail the coupon, that’s all. We’ll send you FREE SAMPLE STOCKING and complete money-making outfit postage prepaid. Show women how they can save at least half of their hosiery cost and write orders. We deliver and collect. Could anything be easier.? If you don’t make money quicker and easier than you ever did, throw the whole works away! Can we say more?

KENDEX


BABYLON 69,N.Y.

«

PE JQOiLJiLJJB!

ASENSATIONAL BAROAIN FOR NEW Jt|«IBERS OF TR| AD

New Best-Sellers! All-Time Favorites! *‘Big-Name** Authors!

2, the angry mountain

—Hammond innes

The gripping: story of six frightened people, trajiped between a desperate murderer and an erupting volcano! By the author of The Survivors.

NO SURVIVORSl

— Will Henry Why did this educated white man turn renegade— to become Walking Hawk, most feared and ruthless killer among the savage Sioux Indians?

3 THE CITY OF FRWEM

’ FIRE —Vaughan Wilkins A fabulous island empire at the end of the world, where lay a fortune for those brave enough to win it — death for those who failed!

5 PASSPORT TO PERIL

* —Robert Parker

To get behind the Iron Curtain, Stodder had to assume the Identity of a dead spy ~® spy who was expected by the dreaded Secret Police!

AKING SOLOMON’S MINES

— Rider Haggard The most exciting novel ever written about Africa — the story of three men and a fortune guarded by an ancient curse!

4 THE JULES VERNE * OMNIBUS

fiOO pages — 4 complete novels! 20,000 Leagues Under the Sea, Around the World in SO Days, The Blockade It unners. From the Earth to the IVIoon.

7^ SHINING MOUNTAIfil

—Steve Fraiei

Thirty men started across thg Shining Mountains. Somewher® in those icy crags they would battle nature, death— and one

anotherl

MAIL THIS COUPON \

Adventure Book Club, Dept. 12PFG, I

Garden City, New York I

Please enroll me in the Adventure Book Club. Send j me at once the 4 books whose numbers I have • circled below, and bill me ONIjY $1 FOR ALL 4, I plus few cents shipping cost. I

1 2 3 4 5 6 7 ■

i am to receive free the Club Bulletin, Adventure ■ / Trails, so I may decide in advance which future f selections I want to accept. I need take only four ■ books a year out of the 24 action novels ottered, ■ and I pay only the bargain price of $l each, plus I I few cents shipping and handling, for books I accept. |

After accepting four books.

I may cancel

my mem1

bership at any time.


Please


■

Namt

... Print

■



Address



City &


Zone


(THIS OFFER GOOD ONLY IN THE U. S.) 1


TT’S to introduce you to the new kind of club for men you’ve always wanted! Each month the editors of the Adventure Book Club select the most exciting novels of adventure— —action — suspense! These books sell for as much as $3.00 in the publishers’ editions, but you get them for only $1 each!

Relax the Way Famous Celebrities Do — with an Adventure Novell

You get the headliners in adventure fiction — by the most famous authors— in variety to suit every taste for thrills! Frontier novels, stories of adventure in the arctic and in the jungle, spy thrillers, action on land and sea and in the air!

Take as Few as Four Books a Year!

You do not have to accept every selection— just four books a year from at least 24 books offered. After purchasing four books, at only $1 each, you can cancel your membership anytime!

Mail Coupon Now!

Receive at once any 4 adventure books on this page for only $1, plus shipping cost! When you get this big package of thrills, and realize it is just a sample of the treats in store for you, you will be delighted!

ADVENTURE BOOK CLUB GARDEN CITY, NEW YORK

[THE END]
