============================================================
Weird Tales
Volume 35, Number 9
Date: May 1941
============================================================
============================================================
TABLE OF CONTENTS

  1. "English  OfHce:  Charles  Lavell,  Limited,  4 Clements  Inn,  Strand,  London,  W.C.2,  England" by The  publishers  are  not
============================================================
============================================================
ENGLISH OFHCE: CHARLES LAVELL, LIMITED, 4 CLEMENTS INN, STRAND, LONDON, W.C.2, ENGLAND
by The publishers are not
============================================================
Snaphaunce pistol, and I’m not sure yet whether it’s a forgery, though I paid a price for it. Here are a pair of flint-locks by Lazarino Comminazzo. Note the double-necked hammers. This is an old arquebus, and this a French wheel-lock

with the royal shield in gilt and damascened with gold.”

Even my books on which I had prided myself for so long seemed to fade and lose some of their glamor as I stared down upon these beautiful relics. I said as much to Trevellan, and he smiled graciously.

“I should like to see your books,” he replied. "I have a few volumes on munitions that are rather old, but from a standpoint of binding or edition I’m afraid they are of little importance. Unfortunately I’m leaving for the country tomorrow, so I’ll have to postpone the visit.”

“How long are you going to stay?”

He shrugged. “Rented a secluded place down Arronshire way, and I may stay all summer. Doctor’s orders, you know. Says I’m all on edge and need solitude. It’ll be a miserable nuisance, but still I don’t mind. I can finish a paper on Scotch pistols I started a month ago. But say... why not motor down and stay a fortnight or so? We could have a royal time.”

Early in July, when my business permitted, I had "motored down,” but I had cut my stay short and actually breathed a sigh of relief when I was back in Bloomsbury. Why? Tlie reason is hardly a tangible one. And yet now, seen retrospectively, it seems a psychic warning of what was to follow.

1 FOUND Arronshire a district quite distinct and separate from its neighbors, both from a philologist’s and a cartographer’s point of view. The people were a rough, burly type, and the characteristic voice inflection was harsh and unpleasant. The country was extremely wild and rugged. And a general air of neglect seemed to pervade everywhere. The hedges had grown rank and untrimmed. Road markings had fallen to decay, bridges rattled ominously as my car rolled over them, and the villages seemed to shrink back despondently as I passed.



For a solid two miles the lane which led to the manor was lined with gnarled old apple trees. But it was the sign on the post-box that drew me up short. "Blueker House,” it read. "Ludwig Blueker, Undertaker.”

The house was one of those monstrosities of the Victorian age, ornate and sadly in want of paint. The lawn before it was overrun with weeds, and a general air of neglect was over all.

"How do you like it?” Trevellan hailed from the veranda.

"Why on earth don’t you take away that undertaker’s sign?” I replied in question. "This place is about as cheerful as a graveyard.”

He had moved into the house furnished, bringing with him a single trunk and, of course, his beloved pistols. The weapon case he had placed by the big bay window, opening on the front lawn. The huge mahogany cabinet seemed strangely out of place tliere, and so did Trevellan himself. As I sat across from him, his delicate face glowed in the lamplight like tinted wax, and I could not help thinking of an old painting, a portrait of a French courtier that hung in my rooms.

But while I could not point my finger at any one feature of the house that was in itself distasteful, there was something utterly somber and depressing about the architecture that crushed all buoyancy of feeling and left me in a state of deep melancholia. I stayed only two days, then headed back for London.

The rest of tire summer passed with only an occasional letter from Trevellan. He had grown accustomed to the solitude, he said, and was really enjoying his convalescence. August dragged into September, and his letters grew fewer, and finally stopped altogether.

Then one day in Charing Cross I stumbled upon a book that brought Trevellan back to mind. It was an old volume, once

finely bound, with the title. Histone of Certayne Small Fire Arms, stenciled deeply in a brass plate on the cover. It contained some exquisite colored drawings of old pistols. I knew how eagerly my friend would welcome the sight of such a work.

Accordingly, the next day I headed toward Arronshire and Hugh Trevellan. A week before, the countryside had been a maelstrom of autumn color, but now, as I drove along, I found only a graveyard of naked trees and drab bracken. The strong winds which, had whipped in from the south during the past few days had removed every leaf, the advance warning of an early winter.

T)y NIGHTFALL I was nearing the manor. Again, as in early summer, I felt an increasing heaviness of spirit as I entered the district. Black storm clouds were pouring into the sky when I reached the village of Darset. Dust and old leaves swirled into the car, and a drop of rain spattered on the windshield. But my attention was drawn to the state of general excitement which had seized the townfolk.

Knots of them stood in the light of shop windows, talking earnestly. Several rickety cars tore by, loaded with men armed with hunting- rifles. And in the doorway of one house several persons were trying to console a woman who was crying bitterly.

"What’s wrong?” I asked the garage man, as he began filling my car with petrol.

"Wolves,” he replied, and looked frightened as he said it.

"Wolves,” I told him rather coldly, "have been extinct in England since the Fifteenth Century.”

He looked at me queerly and spilled a quart of petrol on the mudguards. "Have they, sir?” he said. "Then it’s a wild dog it must be, or something worse.”

"Did it attack somebody?”

The man’s hand shook as he took the money. "That’s what it did, sir. Carried



off the widow Chase’s youngest, the sweetest girl you’ve ever seen.”

I stared. "You mean a wild dog actually killed a child?”

"And she’s not the first, sir. Only a fortnight ago, Johnny, the cobbler’s son, was taken from almost under his mother’s eyes. It comes at night, alone, a big, gray brute, with fiery eyes, they say. Jeff Twillger took a shot at him from his bedroom window. Jeff can hit a shilling every time from here to that tree, but he missed. A reward be posted too: fifty pounds for the man who brings in his pelt. I’ll be bringin’ down my gun, I think. It’s nice earnin’s.”

I took note of the threatening heavens now, and with the garage man’s help, put up the tonneau top of the car. 'The distant rolling of thunder was in my ears as I headed down the winding road, and the headlights showed the rain coming down in earnest. In a quarter of an hour the road was in.bad condition, and I was forced to reduce speed.

I came to Blueker House lane at last and the next moment was shaking hands with Hugh Trevellan.

The house looked even gloomier than before, but when my friend offered me a glass of Liebfraumilch, I was almost glad I had come.

"It is good wine,” agreed Trevellan. "It was left here by the old Austrian who formerly owned the place. He died, you know, and the house was offered completely furnished. I saw the ad and leased it before even seeing it. Not so bad, eh?”

I smiled and set down my glass. "I’ve got something to show you,” I said, reaching for my grip-sack.

He was up and out of his chair at that •with the exuberance of a child suddenly reminded of a toy. "And I’ve got something to show you.”

He stepped quickly to his pistol case and returned with an oblong box of tarnished

silver. Placing it on the table before me, he opened it and stood back proudly. "The masterpiece of them all,” he said. “And where do you think I found it? In Darset, of all places.”

Resting on its cushion of dark velvet, gleaming in the lamplight, was a beautiful long-barreled pistol. The butt was made of ivory, yellowed now like an ancient cameo, and adorned with an intricate network of silver filigree. Mosaic inlays formed queer designs above the trigger, and the barrel, which was trim and graceful as a poised lance, glittered with engraved gold spirals. A small gold cross was upraised at one end. But it was the hammer that attracted my attention. Of blackened steel, it had been fashioned into a perfect death’s-head.

“Isn’t it a beauty?” Trevellan said, leaning over my shoulder.

"And you bought it in Darset?” I said, unbelievingly.

He smiled in delight. "By a sheer piece of luck. It belonged to one of the villagers, and when he found I was interested in old weapons, he offered to sell it to me. I gave him twice what he asked.”

I took the pistol from its case and fondled it. "Italian?”

rpREVELLAN frowned. "You’ve got me there. I really don’t know what it is. I don’t believe it’s Italian, and nothing about it suggests the Germanic. The man said it had been in his family for years.”

We lit our pipes after that, and Trevellan went into a lengthy dissertation on the artistry of ancient weapons in general. At length I brought out the book which had really been the incentive for my visit. Trevellan thumbed through its pages carefully and looked a long time at the illustrations.

"It’s an excellent work,” he said. "I ”

His voice trailed off; his eyes suddenly riveted themselves on the book. With a



low exclamation he pushed the table lamp nearer the printed page.

"Look here, McKay,” he cried hoarsely. "Read this.”

The volume was turned to the chapter. Early Eighteenth Century, and in the center of the page I read the followdng paragraph.

"The moste skillfull worke of the master craftsmanne, Johann Stiffter of Prague, was a holstre pistol made for a subject of England, Sir William Kingston, in the yeare of our Lord, 1712. This weapon was fashioned in certayne unusual ways, being made to fire a silver bullet, being blessed by seven priests with holy water, and having the crucifix carved upon the barrel. Sir William, it was said, was wont to travel often in the southerne countrys, and while on one of his journeys was attacked by werewolves and other dsemons. The witch-wolves, who were really human creatures in league with Satan, carried off his little daughter, Julie, and left Sir William sore hurte. Whereupon the Englishmanne swore vengeance upon all like fiends of hell and ordered the pistol made, combining all knowne methods by which they could be killed.”

And following these startling words came an illustration and a detailed description of none other than the ivory pistol Trevellan had shown me only a short while before.

There was no mistaking the fact. No pistol of similar craftsmanship could have been created. But there was one way to prove absolutely its authenticity. The description mentioned five words carved upon the weapon by the gunsmith: 'Tod dem Wahrwolf schwore Ich [Death to the Werewolf I swear}.

"Have you a magnifying glass?” I asked Trevellan. And then I stared as I saw my friend’s consternation. The man was almost beside himself. His hands were opening and closing convulsively; his face had grown white, and a strange frightened look had stolen into his eyes. He got up, swaying.

"There’s one here some place. I’ll — • I’ll see if I can find it.”

A moment later we were scrutinizing

the pistol through the glass. Tiny lettering appeared on the barrel.

"There it is!” I cried. "It’s the same pistol.”

There was no answer. I turned and stared at Trevellan. He was leaning heavily against the table, lips twitching. Abruptly he seized the pistol from my hands, thrust it back in its box and replaced it in the mahogany case.

"Are you ill?” I said.

"Yes,” he replied jerkily. "I — I feel a bit faint. That long walk I took today must have done me up. If you don’t mind. I think I’ll go off to bed.”

I nodded and regarded him curiously as he left the room. What on earth had come over the man? He had been perfectly normal until reading that paragraph about the pistol. I lit my pipe and sat there, musing over his strange actions. And as the tobacco smoke drifted ceilingward, I suddenly became aware of the storm again.

The rain was swishing against the big bay window now. Thunder boomed steadily overhead as if some giant rolling-pin were being moved back and forth across the roof.

For a time I was content to sit there, listening to the wild night so near, yet so far. But as my mind began a train of thought suggested by that queer paragraph, a decided sense of unease came over me.

Werewolves! What strange horrors man will mentally create for himself. It was a queer belief, this idea that a man will adopt a taste for human blood and will change into a lower animal, a wolf, to obtain it. Stranger still the legend that holy water, the sight of the crucifix, or a silver bullet will kill such a demon. And yet I knew such superstitions were still current in south: Europe.

Suddenly my pipe slipped from my teeth, and I sat bolt upright. The words of the garage man in Darset suddenly flashed back to me. He had spoken of a



wolf or wild dog that had entered the town and made off with a child on two separate occasions.

I tried vainly to v/ard off the absurd question that was stealing into my brain. Might not this big gray brute be a werewolf? I forced a laugh. But the thought persisted, and more details arose to defeat my better judgment.

Was -it not true that wolves had been extinct in England'since the Fifteenth Century? Yes, of course; but the beast might have been a wild dog. But if it were a' wild dog, would there not be some record of its once being tame? I frowned. Not necessarily. The animal might have come from a distance, left there by its owner when he had vacated. But still a wild dog would make for the poultry coops. No matter how long it had been wild, human flesh would be repugnant to it, would it not? I stared into the bowl of my pipe. To this question I could offer no answer at all.

A shelf of books on the other side of the room caught my eyes, and thinking perhaps to steer my mind into more pleasant channels I crossed over and let my gaze pass along the titles. I saw with astonishment that all of the two dozen volumes dealt with lycanthropy, sorcery, black art, and the occult. Richard Verstegan’s Restitution of Decayed Intelligence, strange names of long-dead authors, rare works whose publication had been banned by God-fearing people lay there on the shelf before me. There was LeLoyer’s Book of Spectres, the sixth edition of DePraestigies Daemonun et Incantationihus, printed at Basle, and that hellish writing of Milo Calument, 1 Am a W erewolf, all copies of which I remembered were supposed to have been cast in Hoxton marsh.

IT WAS odd that Trevellan had not mentioned these books to me when he knew nothing could have delighted me

more. And it was odd, I suddenly thought, that Trevellan should be reading them himself. One would find nothing in the line of pistols in these pages.

But when I looked,at one of the volumes I found the reason. They were not Trevellan’s property. They belonged to Ludwig Blueker, the former resident of the house, as attested by the name scrawled on the flyleaf. Yet the books had not passed Trevellan’s notice. Throughout the pages I found queer notations in his writing. There was no mistaking his peculiar scrawl.

One particular group of sentences caught my eye. It read:

"July 31. I followed all the rituals tonight and found that I have the power. I can hardly realize it, but it’s true. Something seemed to draw me toward the village, but I dared not venture from the grounds. One must grow accustomed to such a terrific change.”

Far back in my brain a lurking suspicion was beginning to grow, and I thumbed through the pages for more notations. But beyond a few meaningless jumbles of words, the rest was in Latin, which I did not understand.

Puzzled, I made my way up the stairs to my bedroom, undressed and went to bed.

Sleep has always come readily in my life, yet now with the rain surging at the windows, and the lightning flares drawing drunken shadows along the wall, I lay awake, listening to the slow ticking of the hall clock.

Midnight came with the slow striking of the clock chimes. And then I heard the door of Trevellan’s bedroom creak open and footsteps pass softly down the hall. I sat up. I slipped to the door, opened it a crevice and peered out.

A dim nightlight burned at the far end of the hall. In its feeble glow I saw Trevellan, fully dressed, moving toward the staircase. But his actions were not those of



a man in his own home. He was skulking forward, stopping every few steps to listen carefully. As he reached the first stair I caught a glimpse of his face.

A wild, insane look contorted his features. The eyes bulged in their sockets; the mouth sagged downward in an empty grin. For an instant he stared unseeingly toward my door; then he began to descend.

For a moment I knelt there, staring into empty darkness, my mind whirling madly. Had the man been sleep walking? But there was nothing of the somnambulist in Trevellan’s actions. Where then was he going, stealing out of his house like a hunted criminal?

On impulse I darted down the stairs, ripped open the door. A sheet of rain slapped my face. The grounds loomed dark before me. Then a fork of lightning streaked down from the heavens, and I saw it. Bounding along the path, heading toward the road was a great gray dogshaped wolf! It turned in that instant of electrical flash, and the sight of those fiendish, fiery eyes was something I would never forget.

Then darkness returned, and for many moments I stood there,, motionless. Chilled,

I slowly returned to my room, sank into a chair by the window and watched the rain trickle down the glass. Questions unanswerable pounded at my brain.

Hours dragged by, and gradually I lapsed into a fitful slumber.

When I awoke the gray dawn was stealing into my room. The, wind had gone, and outside the water puddles lay motionless, like strips of iron under the leaden sky. All was strangely still. Through the open casement came the smell of wet earth and moldering leaves.

I listened. From far off in the direction of the village came a long mournful howl. Again it sounded, louder, more distinct. Years before I had heard such a cry when I had ridden through Royalwoods in pursuit of the fox. But it was not the baying of hounds I heard now. It v/as the cry of a wolf, and it was approaching the manor at lightning speed.

Fists clenched, I waited. And then a moment later it bounded into sight directly beneath my window. A feeling of loathing swept over me as my gaze fell on that gray shaggy body. The wolf looked around with a snarl, then moved out of my sight toward the other side of the house.

An interval of silence, and then I heard the door unlatch softly.' Footsteps sounded on the carpeted stairs. I strode across the room, opened the door.

Hugh Trevellan was entering the hall. No longer was he skulking as though afraid of being seen. He was erect now, and he turned and cast a last look over his shoulder before entering his room.

Suddenly a giddy sensation rose within me. A scream gurgled unsounded to my lips. I had seen the mouth, the lips of Trevellan in that instant before he entered his room, and God help me, they were slobbered with thick red blood!

Those intervening hours until I stumbled down to breakfast were a living hell. When I sat down at the table my hands were trembling perceptibly.

“Good morning, McKay,” Trevellan said. "Hope you had a good night’s sleep in spite of the storm.”

The silky satisfaction of the man sent a v.'ave of nausea through me. But he did not seem to notice the fact that I made no reply. Keeping up a steady conversation, he laughed and joked, and I could not help thinking his actions were those of a man living the after effect of a powerful drug.

I studied him closely as he sipped his tea. His cheeks glowed with a brightness of almost super-health. And yet he seemed to have changed. Not greatly. 'The features were the same and the pale, blue eyes still gave him that look of doll-like fragility.



But about his head tliere were certain alterations that destroyed the classic moulding I had always admired. The ears were more prominent, longer and pointed in shape. The nose, I’m sure, was larger, with dilated nostrils.

"Trevellan,” I said when breakfast was over, "who was Ludwig Blueker?”

He frowned. "The former owner of the manor,” he replied. "Shall we go for a walk down the road a bit?”

"I know he was the former owner,” I said as we went out the door, "but was he a farmer or an undertaker?”

"Both, I believe,” Trevellan answered. "He eked out a mean existence from the soil, and he made a few pounds now and then by doing the occasional funeral work for the people of Darset.”

It was plain that Trevellan did not care to discuss the matter with me further.

"I was looking at some of his books last night,” I said, "and what a collection! Blueker must have been a superstitious fool'!”

Trevellan turned on me almost with a snarl.

"He was a great man,” he cried. "Those villagers laughed at him because he preferred to stay in solitude and study things which they could not understand. Blueker took years to gather those books.”

We were nearing the end of the lane now, weaving our way in and out among the pools of water. Emerging on the post road, we drew up as two men on horseback clattered up beside us.

"Good mornin’,” said the nearest, a tall fellow I remembered seeing in the village.

"But a wet, chilly one.”

He nodded. "You haven’t been seeing a wolf or wild dog about, have ye?” The voice was stern and filled with determination.

I could feel myself swaying slightly. "It didn’t attack someone in Darset again?”

He shifted in his saddle. "It did. Broke

into a house last night. It’s getting more courage every time. The mothers be watching their children like hawks today, and there’s ten parties out hunting the brute.”

"How many last night?” I waited his reply with an inner terror.

"Two. The Jepson twins. It’s ’orrible, sir.”

"If he comes around here,” I said, "he’ll leave his pelt.”

The man smiled grimly. "There’ll be a hundred pounds in it if ye do, sir. And the personal thanks of every mother in Darset.”

He dug his knees into the horse’s flank, and the two of them rode off at a fast trot.

Trevellan stared at me dumbly. 'The jovial mood had left him, and in its place was a look of unmistakable fear.

"I — I think we’d better be getting back,” he said. "I’ve got some writing to do.”

TN Blueker House once again Trevellan

excused himself and went to his room. Left alone, I wandered into the library.

The moment I entered that chamber I felt the presence of some unseen power! Like a great lodestone I felt myself drawn toward Trevellan’s pistol case. As I stood there, gazing through the glass doors, a single object centered into my vision: the silver box that contained Trevellan’s latest ivory pistol.

Impulsively I opened the case and took out the weapon. The sight of that relic there affected me like old wine. I turned it over and over, but I offer no explanation for what I did a moment later. In slots on the velvet-lined box lay the weapon’s charge, three silver bullets, and loading equipment. Hesitating a moment I picked up one of the silver balls, inserted it in the gun and poured in powder from the little horn. I rammed the charge home. Then with an effort I replaced the weapon in the magohany case.



Not until it was quite dark outside did Trevellan come downstairs.

"I’m sorry, McKay,” he said, "but I’ve got to go to the village. You’ll find some cold food in the kitchen. I may be back late, so don’t wait up for me.”

The door slammed, and his footsteps died away on the gravel.

And then a slow feeling of dread rose up within me. I fell to pacing the room madly. Outside a flotilla of velvet clouds was creeping across the sky, but off to the east a darker blot glowed with a soft radiance where the moon was trying to break through.

More hours snailed past; the ticking of the pendulum cloud pounded through the rooms like the blows of a mallet. Stranger than before came that strange psychic urge to open again Trevellan’s gun case and take into my hands that ivory pistol.

Then suddenly there floated to my ears a far-off ringing sound. I listened. It came from the direction of the village, swept forward by a wind, a deep bong, bong that penetrated every corner of the manor like a tocsin. 'The blood rushed to my head. It was a tocsin! ’They were ringing the steeple bell in Darset, ringing it to awaken the village. The horror had begun!

And as I listened, another sound rose over the bell— the long wailing cry of a wolf.

I stood by the big bay window, staring out into the grounds. The moon rode in and but through thick clouds. Giant disproportionate shadows staggered across the lawn.

Abruptly the clouds parted, and I saw the beast in the full light of the moon. It was the wolf, and its mouth was smeared crimson.

A scream rose to my lips. I felt myself turn like a puppet on a wire. My gaze centered on the weapon case, and its magnetic lure increased a hundredfold. An inner power, a psychic will drew me toward it.

My hand moved forward. I opehed the glass door.

"Trevellan!” I cried. "Trevellan! Go back!” ‘

The wolf stopped short and peered upward. Like lightning my hand leaped to the case. My fingers closed over the ivory pistol, snatched it from its velvet mounting.

My thumb reached for the death’shead hammer, pulled it to full cock. My forefinger tightened on the trigger.

"Trevellan!” I cried. "Good God, I can’t help myself!”

There was a crashing report. Glass shattered and fell to the floor. From out on the lawn below me came a hoarse cry of pain.

Then I was released. Turning, I flung the pistol to a far corner, raced out into the grounds. I found him there, sprawled on the grass, his shirt marked with a growing circle of red. He rose up as I lifted his head in my arms.

"Thanks, McKay,” he said, his voice a whisper. "It was— it was the only way.”

He fell back with a sigh, and I was alone with the corpse of Hugh Trevellan.

ON OCTOBER second, the evening edition of the London Chronicle published the following item:

"Reports of an unfortunate tragedy in north Arronshire, near the village of Darset, were made known today by police of the district. The body of Mr. Hugh Trevellan, noted antiquarian and authority on ancient firearms, was found in his summer home by a close friend, Mr. Martin McKay of Russel Square, Bloomsbury, who had come from London to visit him. After examining the body, the district doctor expressed the opinion that death had come accidentally when a weapon Mr. Trevellan was cleaning was discharged. The bullet, curiously, was found to be made of silver.’’

^^ost of a Chance

By A. B. ALMY

"A skeleton in the closet?” Th'at’s nothing to a mummy in the breast pocket!

DON’T ask me why I went to the Charity Bazaar that evening. By rights, I should have gone to bed early. I had used all my energy and ingenuity that day in my effort to break down sales-resistance to the purdiase of the Acrecorn, the niftiest, most up-to-date, comfortbringing, accident-reducing, auto-gadget in existence.

I was standing on the street corner, top-coat on arm, gladstone at side, waiting for a taxi to show up. In spite of the tooting of auto-horns and the roar of electric-cars, oddly, at times, I could hear the




horse-chestnuts dropping to the ground from the trees in the center-parking. The fact is, I was becoming gradually relaxed. In this pleasurable state of mind and body, I must have let several taxis pass unnoticed.

Suddenly I became aware that someone had jostled against me. It must have been one of the two girls who were just then passing. They were talking at the top of their voices. I couldn’t help hearing them:

"I beft'" there’ll be a lot of folks at the Bazaar tonight. "Won’t we have a swell time!”

“You said it. It’s the last night, too. They’re going to raffle off that horrible thing, you know.”

"Mercy! You give me the shivers! I wouldn’t want to get it. Just feature — ”

'That’s ail I heard plainly. A taxi was at hand. I half raised my hand to hail it, yet, when it was on the point of stopping, I motioned for it to go on. "Why did I? Because, for some reason, I felt the compulsion to follow those two girls whose conversation I had partly overheard. As they had been dawdling along, they were now only a block or so from' where I had been standing. I could easily pick them out from the crowd by their red, mffled, knee-short dresses and their black cocked-hats. Twins, very likely. Even if I had lost sight of them. I’m quite certain, knowing what I now know, that I would have gone their way and arrived at their destination. They had said that they were going to the Charity Bazaar. I knew that I was bound for the same place. Don’t ask me how I knew.

Presently the two girls disappeared. I went on, not hurrying particularly. My alligator-bag waS becoming heavy.

And now, I had arrived at the place. The building was large, brilliantly lighted.

I pushed my way up the steps and into the main hall.

It was a regular old-fashioned lodge bazaar, or fair, you might call it. There

were booths of every kind, swathed in colored bunting and paper. There were balsam pillows, crazy-quilts, aprons galore, woven baskets— in fact, doodads of every description. There was the clatter of cups and plates. An orchestra that no one was listening to was adding to the hubbub. Indeed, there was the usual confusion and, everywhere, the usual bevy of marcelled young women begging you to buy something. And, what was still more old-fashioned, there was the selling of chances, or tickets, for articles more or less useless, especially, to the male sex.

In the midst of this hubbub, I was calm. I disposed of my coat and baggage at the decorated check-stand. I took time to eat a sizeable chicken-pie and to down the strongest cup of coffee within my experience. After that, I went directly to the farther end of the long hall. Here, was the bazaar of curiosities, as it was called. There were all sorts of things — grotesque tea-pots, tobacco — ^pipes of every imaginable shape and country, queer-shaped brass and pottery vessels, Chinese, Peruvian — who knows from where they all came? Of course, there were tigers’ teeth, elephants’ tusks, stuffed birds, petrified fish. "Why name them all? They meant nothing to me at the time, nor do they now.

ILEARNED, from the large poster above the- booth, that this miscellany of objects had been donated, to be sold for charity, by a distinguished gentleman, „Mr. Frederick Rawlins, world-renowned traveler and philanthropist. After a cursory glance at this hodge-podge of stuff, I gave my attention to one object alone. The thing was an Egyptian mummy. It was propped up in a wooden box painted white inside, the better to display its lineaments. One of the mummy’s arms was merged with its shriveled breast. The other hung somewhat apart from the body, like a rope of brown, twisted hemp, with a knot at



the end. That knot, I perceived, was a hand. I was fascinated by that hand.

I leaned over the wooden hand-rail, only a few inches from that brown, shrunken thing. More than once, I have been told that, by nature, I am rather cold and unsympathetic. However that may be, I was immediately overwhelmed with sympathy for this mummy. Poor fellow! It’s bad enough to be buried in the ground, but how much worse it is to have one’s body salted and dried and packed away in some stifling vault, only to be dragged out again, some thousands of years later, and treated like so much merchandise. How humiliating to be displayed before the curious eyes of a callous mob, who see nothing in you but a lump of cinnamon-colored leather with features like no human being.

As I continued to stare at the mummy, I became convinced that, in life, he had been an exceptionally intelligent man. In that shrunken head, I pictured a philosopher’s brow. What an insult to raflle off his body as if it were a mere patch-work quilt. Yet, that is exactly what they were doing.

I was besieged by ticket-sellers. "Buy a chance! Buy a chance for the Egyptian mummy!’’

"No, thank you. No.”

"A ticket for the mummy, sir? A mummy ticket, before they’re all gone!”

"No! No, I say!”

As I was turning away from the rail to dismiss the importunate ticket sellers, someone touched me on the arm. Who was it? I didn’t see. the person. However, that touch impelled me to call out, "Here, I’ll take one of those mummy tickets!”

Three girls rushed up to me. I deliberately waited until another one came up. "I’ll take my ticket from you,” I indicated.

I reached my hand into her tin coffee-can and extracted a ticket. It was number 321.

I placed it in my bill-fold.

I was ready to go now.

All the while that I was in the taxi on my way to the hotel, I cursed myself for being so foolish as to take in that lodge affair. Twice, I took out the ticket to tear it to pieces, but, instead of doing so, I replaced it, unmutilated. I loiow, now, that I could as readily have torn an iron bar to shreds as that ticket.

As I said before, I had had an exceptionally difflcult day. Once in bed, I fell asleep immediately. Soon, hovrever, I became restless. I dreamed fitfully of sarcophagi and mummies and ticket-girls and huge chicken-pies.

TAWOKE, suddenly. Someone was getting into bed with me. The nerve of it! I had engaged a single room and paid plenty for it. It was inky dark in the room, so I didn’t see the person. Why didn’t the fellow finish getting in if that was what he was bent on doing? Queer, this getting in and yet, not getting in — exactly.

I had a sickish feeling. I reached over. Nothing was there. Yet, the bed was creaking. There was a depression, too, as if — as if what? I could scarcely breathe. But someone else was breathing. It was the breath of mummy pits.

I thought that my heart had stopped beating. Yet, after a moment or so, I felt it still functioning. "I must be calm. Calm,” my mind registered. "No matter what happens. I must keep a clear head.”

That steady breathing at nay side. 'That cavernous breathing. "Don’t get excited,”

I admonished myself. So, by sheer willpower, I worked myself up to the point where I saw the situation. The ticket! I had drawn the lucky ticket! The joke was on me. Up to now, I had always been able to take a joke. That’s why I had become such a successful salesman.

I didn’t Icnow a word of Egyptian. I could try English.

“Who are you?” I asked in a kind of



gasping way. I really didn’t expect a reply.

“Shafra Tatkera Ptah-hotep,” came in a fungus-like voice. "If that’s too long for you, you may call me Shafra Tatkera, when you’re in a hurry. Ptah-hotep is my family name.”

I just lay there, too weak to move. The breathing became louder. "I said you may call me Shafra Tatkera for short. Didn’t you hear me?”

"Y-yes. I was only — I was only wondering where you learned to speak English.”

"To be sure, that’s only natural. Well, I don’t intend to tell you everything. Even my favorite wife, most precious lotus blossom of all lotus blossoms, Hespa Nekata, never did know more than a hint of all my goings on. You’re shivering. Here, I don’t need any blankets. The fact is. I’ve picked up English ever since I left the tombs. We’ll skip telling how long a time that is. To tell the truth, I’ve been attached, more or less intimately, with thirteen individuals, since then. Two of them were women.”

The bed was shaking, though I didn’t hear any laughing. After a moment, he burst out, “Ha! Ha! Ha! Those tombs! That painted sarcophagus! There’s nothing in the world like it. Quite jolly! Speak English, do I? A little French, too. The Russian language was the hardest. But, really, I owe ipy excellent English to Frederick Rawlins. I spent more time with him than with anyone else. You are acquainted with him, I suppose?”

I said “No,” but so faintly that he failed to hear. He leaned over and repeated the question. I didn’t want him to do that again.

“No!” I shouted, and, with that, almost passed out.

“Don’t be childish. I hardly expected you’d know him. Pie’s an exceptional person. Likes to delve into out-of-the-way

places and collect valuable curiosities. He’s lousy rich but it hasn’t spoiled him. Very kind-hearted, too, or he wouldn’t be donating me and all those other choice bits to charity.” Again, that dreadful silent laughter. “You do realize, don’t you, that it was merely his philanthropic sense that made him part with me? We were together thirty-four congenial months. And now, I’m with you.”

I groaned inwardly.

"Ha! Ha! Ha!” This time, aloud.

I couldn’t keep my teeth from clicking.

"There’s no reason to be stand-offish, Mister — What h your name? And your business?”

■ "My name’s Anthony Charleston. I travel for the Bickwell-Crowder Company, producers of the Acrecom, the niftiest, most up-to-date, comfort-bringing, accident-reducing, auto gadget in existence. In fact, the Acrecom has reduced auto accidents— ■”

“Hold on. Charleston, I’m not interested in that line of talk.”

If I could have choked him, I would have. Instead, I asked boldly, "Aren’t you sleepy, Mr. Shafra Hottep?”

"Shafra Tatkera, I told you. No, I’m not sleepy. Three thousand-seven-hundred-and-eleven years in a carved sarcophagus is some rest, believe me. The truth is, I’m never sleepy.”

I drew a breath of despair.

"See here, if you’re tired, go ahead and sleep.”

“Thanks.” I turned over on my side. Sleep. How could I sleep? I was afraid to breathe for fear he’d think I wasn’t asleep, and afraid not to breathe for the same reason. If I only could sleep!

The clock on the stand near the bed had a phosphorescent dial. One o’clock. Two o’clock. That thing at my side was restless, too. My eyes kept staring at the clock. By three o’clock, I had become stiff as a board. Four o’clock. I hadn’t supTHE GHOST OF A CHANCE 75

posed that there were any roosters in the heart of a metropolis, but there seemed to be. A breath escaped me.

"Hear that.^” came a chuckle at my side. "Would 5'ou believe it?”

I didn’t reply. Heavens, was he telepathic? Was I to have no peace, sleeping or awake? I was so tense, I felt as if, at'any moment, I might crack into pieces.

Presently, there was such utter silence and lack of stir, that I believed that Shafra Tatkera himself had fallen asleep, if such a thing were possible.

Four-thirty o’clock. I had a wild idea. I was going to escape. I got up softly.

"Heigh-o, friend Anthony! I hope nothing I’ve done has disturbed you.”

"Oh, no,” I said nonchalantly, through dry lips. "I’ve always liked the morning air. Besides, I like to get an early start — the early bird, you know.” I was trying to be jaunty, but I was merely vapid. The bed shook with insulting laughter.

After I was dressed, I opened up my sample-case and arranged papers. The sight of my Acrecoms, usually so inspiring, produced only a dull heaviness in me. What was going to happen to me and to them? I had a premonition that I was facing ruin, both business, and domestic. What of Harriet, my devoted wife, and Jimmy and little Prudy? I drew a deep sigh.

"Excuse me, will you, if I talk to you from the bed? No need for me to get up yet. However, we’ve got to attend to something. I suppose, naturally, that you’re wondering what you’re going to do with me. At the start, we don’t seem to be particularly attracted to each other. That will change, in time, we hope. Cheer up, Anthony. I’ll not talk to you much through the day. I’ll just accompany you silently.” I had a touch of nausea, for the moment. "Do you have your mummy ticket at hand?” As I didn’t answer, he repeated.

sharply, "Let’s see your ticket. It’s number 321.”

As if I had no will of my own, I took the accursed ticket from my billfold.

"All right,” I said. I held it out over the bed. My hand was shaking.

The ticket was snatched from my hand. "It’s O. K.” Ticket 321 was again in my hand. Now, in spite of all that had occurred up to this moment, I had still been trying to believe that I was under some inexplicable spell of hallucination. Now, after this ticket business, I knew that the mummy’s ghost w'as actually with me.

I made a sickly attempt to be facetious: "Well, where do we go from here? So what?”

"Very well, the first thing for you to do is to go and get my mummy. They won’t mind getting rid of it, I fancy. You’ll get my mummy and then — ”

"And then what?” I interrupted, hoping for deliverance.

"Why then, you and I will be able to settle down to normal life, the routine of business.”

"Oh — •” I checked a groan. I was praying silently, "O Lord, Lord, how long!” I had a right to pray. And, I might as well say now, that, in the days and weeks that followed, I exercised that privilege to the utmost, but always silently. "Lord, O Lord, help me get rid of this horrible pest.” But, I don’t wish to anticipate. Hovv'ever, this I will say, Shafra Tatkera was telepathic.

Not to go into detail, in some way or other, I got Shafra Tatkera’s visible substance up into my room. Notwithstanding strenuous objections on his part, I managed to pack him into my medium-size samplecase, which I- then pushed into the dark end of the closet. Excepting for an ancient, undefinable odor that some people might not even have detected, but which to me, smelt down to the most noxious pit, I and my Acrecoms might, to the ordi76


nary observer, have been occupying the room alone.

Speak of a skeleton in the closet. What is that to a mummy!

I was due to leave the city the next day. I mean, the day after the establishment of Shafra Tatkera into my privacy. Only by the most dogged determination, did I succeed in getting off my monthly report. I had the hardihood, too, to keep several engagements early in the day, to clear up orders that had been hanging fire. Shafra Tatkera went with me everywhere. I smelt him, I heard him, I breathed him. I was convinced that my clients were unaware of his presence. I, however, being all too aware of him, found myself replying to his insinuations, aloud. How could I explain to some client that my sudden imprecations, my hitting out 'into apparently thin air, were caused by a creature, invisible to him, but disagreeably actual to myself?

That night, when I reached my room. — he called it our room — I was utterly shot to pieces,

1" SLEPT without dreaming. I awoke, however, when the city rooster crowed. For a few blissful moments I lay there, not feeling, not thinking. Then, it all came back to me with a shock. The ticket. The mummy in my sample-case. Shafra Tatkera in bed with me. My business, my unmatchable Acrecoms, the niftiest, most up-to-date, comfort-bringing — ^but I could not think of them now. My darling Harriet, Jimmy and Little Prudy. "O God, get rid of this horrible Shafra Tatkera. Rid me of — -”

"Good morning, Anthony!”

I couldn’t even pray with, you might say, privacy.

Again, I got up at four-thirty,

"Bright day, isn’t it, friend Anthony, to be up and about so early? You’re bound to sell your gadgets today.”

I wondered. Could this early rising really offset my terrible handicap?

I tried business again that day. This time, I — ^we— -set off at noon. Somehow or other, I couldn’t summon courage to go earlier. It might have been all right if I had been able to ignore absolutely Shafra Tatkera’s presence. But how could I? He talked to me almost incessantly. When I couldn’t restrain myself longer, I answered him. People were beginning to think that I was demented. I saw their expressions. I heard their remarks. I became afraid. I sweated. A little more of this thing and I might find myself in an insane asylum.

The night of this day was like that first one when Shafra Tatkera had intruded himself into my companionship. I couldn’t sleep. Would I ever be able to sleep again? Would life ever be sweet and normal again?

"When you become used to me, you’ll sleep like a child,” came the unasked-for consolation in answer to my thoughts. I noticed that it was only two o’clock.

I couldn’t move. I couldn’t think. "O — ” I couldn’t even pray.

"Yes, friend, you’ll get as used to me as to an old shoe.” He gave a rasping laugh. "Frederick Rawlins became used to me. I believe he found me rather interesting from a scientific point of view. Fine old fellow, he was. You, too, have possibilities of companionship, if you’ll only buck

“P-”

Not to become tiresome with detail, I can readily sum up the facts.

I became a hermit in my room at the Palace Hotel. Exercising all kinds of subterfuge, I arranged with the BickwellCrowder Acrecom Company for a leave of absence. With even more* subterfuge, I sadly laid the stage for an indefinite absence from Harriet and the children. I who had always abhorred deceit, lied consummately. Shafra Tatkera admired my skill in this respect, he said.


•77

And so the days passed. Night, morning, noon, afternoon, night again, morning. I — we went out only for meals and the most insistent errands. If there could be any comfort in such a situation, it was that Shafra Tatkera was really a ghost, invisible, requiring neither food nor clothing. Each time I left my room, I returned to it as to a refuge.

A week passed. Two weeks went by. Three. A month passed by the calendar. I was becoming accustomed to the situation, as a prisoner grows used to his bars. And yet, thank heaven, I remained rebellious.

I kept trying to throw off that insiduous something that was drying me up, and yet that was giving me the feeling of being choked with a stale mustiness. As for the Acrecoms, however, I lost all interest in what I used to think were the niftiest, most up-to-date — Oh, what was the use of bothering with them?

Two months passed. I realized that only by remaining conscious of my intolerable situation, could I hope to save myself. "Lord, Lord, help me get rid of this creature — ” Every time that I cried out in my heart, Shafra Tatkera became sulky. He argued with me. He became insulting. I could be thankful for one thing: v/hile he was able to hurl newspapers about the room, he never so much as lifted a heavy object to cudgel me. I am convinced that he was unable to lift anything excepting the lightest weight. Parenthetically, Shafra Tatkera had a passion for newspapers. He read them from the first to the last page.

The days went by, well into the third month. Shafra Tatkera was becoming increasingly annoying. He now kept insisting that I go out on the road again. He kept talking Acrecoms to me. He extolled their virtues, even telling me that they were the niftiest, most up-to-date, comfort-bringing, accident-reducing auto gadgets in existence. I never wanted to hear those words again. "Get out and around, you rabbit. We can swell the sales of Acrecoms for the company so they’ll make us president in just a short time. Buck up.”

I remained deaf to his arguments and appeals. I would never, as long as I was cursed with him, go out on the road. I wasn’t going to risk getting stuck into an asylum.

The fact is, Shafra Tatlcera was actually becoming bored with me. It was a refreshing idea. It encouraged me. "I’ll get rid of him some way or other,” I vowed secretly. "The other thirteen persons found some way of doing it, and so shall 1. But, not by way of the road, of that. I’m certain.”

Every day, now, and off and on, in the night, Shafra Tatkera took to harping on that one subject: "Get out on the road. Sell your Acrecoms. They’re the niftiest, most up-to-date — ”

I would clap my hands over my ears. "No! No! I’ll not go on the road. Nothing can make me sell Acrecoms.”

Such was the situation when we had been together three months, lacking only. two and a half days.

IT WAS nearly lunch time. In a few minutes we would be going out to the Elite Cafe, just around the corner. Shafra Tatkera was quiet, deeply absorbed in the funnies.

Suddenly the fife-siren sounded. Louder it came. Louder, and, with it, came the noise of the engines and trucks. I ran to the window. A crowd was gathering below us. The Palace Hotel was on fire. Already the alarm was sounding through our halls. For all its class, the Palace was an old building. It would burn like tinder. I must escape! But not with the mummy! There wasn’t time to grab up anything.

I ran into the corridor.



“My mummy! Save my mummy!” came shrieking into my ear.

I paid no attention. Smoke was seeping up and through the narrow halls. I ran to the elevator. Others sought the same way of escape, but as instantly as we arrived at the shaft we recognized the futility of that means of escape. In a few minutes the elevators would be wells of flame.

Frantically, I started down the stairway, and, all this time, Shafra Tatkera was with me, screaming, "Get my mummy! Save my mummy!” In a frenzy of terror, he waved his funny paper in front of my face. I hurried on, unheeding.

"I say, get it! Get it before it’s too late!”

"No! No!” I shouted. We had reached the lobby. It was a thickening mass of

smoke. Red tips were showing about the elevator openings.

I was in the street now, amidst the confusion.

Then, from across the street, I stood watching the flames lick up the walls of our wing of The Palace.

’ "My mummy! My mummy!” I still heard his wailing shriek. Still, the funny paper, now almost in tatters, was beating the air.

"Save it! Oh—”

All at once I felt a deep relief. Our wing of The Palace went down with a roaring crash.

I was free!

To this day there is no sound that thrills me more than that of a fire-siren. Again, I feel that sudden sense of relief. Believe it or not, just as you will.

Futility

By MARVIN MILLER

Though man aspires to immortality

With stone and mortar, structures that he lifts

Above reclaiming earth and slashing sea.

Will sink to nothingness: the hieroglyphs On Toltec temples tell perhaps of all Their builders knew of architecture, and In lost Lemuria the starfish crawl Through colonnaded altars in the sand.

Like drunken giants, jealous of their power. Sluggish waves of oceans toss and roll; Sublunar thunder teaches mian to cower; Volcanic caverns praise a primal plan Of That which fashioned carefully the soul. But moulded mountains mightier than man.

By ROBERT BLOCH

PEG and I were like the Smith Brothers — only better, because neither of us had beards. We disagreed so perfectly that we made an irresistible combination. Of course. Peg always permitted me to be boss, provided I did what she told me. And when she invited me to dinner at Leonard Merril’s, whom I detest, I naturally argued and agreed.

So there we were, walking down the street because Peg was athletic and I preferred a taxi. I was walking fast and Peg was dawdling, so she spotted the place first.

"Look at the cute puppy!’’ she. exclaimed. My eyes wandered quickly to surrounding lamp-posts.

"No — over there, in the window.”

Peg dragged me before the glass pane




of what I perceived to be Mardu’s Pet Shop. Of course there was the usual black and white pup crouching wobbly-legged in the sawdust, and Peg began to make those disgusting noises women always make when confronted with puppies, babies, or Tyrone Power.

Now I don’t like dogs, and that is putting it mildly. If I were perishing in the snow of the Alps and a St. Bernard came running up with a bottle of brandy under his neck I might fall on him in gratitude — but I’m sure the pooch would bite me in the leg.

Somehow I never could believe that a dog was man’s best friend; I know of at least three people who are higher in my affections than a canine.

After Peg stopped squealing at this dopey-looking little mutt, I told her this, adding that if we didn’t step on it we’d be late for the party.

"Ooh, let’s go inside and look around,” she countered. Always agreeable, was Peg.

"I do not care for animals,” I said, gently. "In fact I would not go into this foul-smelling joint to see King Kong in a bathing suit. I despise anteaters, dingos, emus, pandas, yaks, aardvaarks, hartebeestes, ocelots, steinbok, dugongs, and elk.”

"My uncle is an Elk,” said Peg.

"And you, my dear, are a horses’ neck,” I murmured; following Peggy into the petshop in response to a charming tug on the lapel which knocked off a button.

"I simply must have that puppy,” she prattled. "He’s so cute, and I could buy him a little red blanket with his name on it, and you could walk him around the block every night — ”

Yes, and I could drop dead too, sister, only it’s bad for my health. So was the pet-shop. To be brutally frank, it smelled in there.

"Come on. Peg, we haven’t got much time,” I said, glancing around the dingy.

cage-lined walls in a sudden attack of combined claustro — and zoophobia.

"Can I do anything for you, sir?”

"Yes, you can open a window and air out this joint. Only you look as though you came from the Black Hole of Calcutta yourself, mister.”

He did, The tall, thin man who rounded the counter was obviously not a Caucasian. He had the dark, pointed face of an East Indian, and his voice held a nasal tv/ang.

In all frankness, I must admit he didn’t impress me then. It was only afterwards, thinking of it, that I realized his movements were those of a panther; that in his pet shop he was a jungle beast. Quiet, quick, supple, ember-eyed, he confronted me.

"That puppy in the window—” Peg began. The tall, dark man shot her a single glance. I don’t know exactly v»hat it conveyed, but Peg shut up. I determined to get him alone sometime and find out how he did it.

Then the lean-faced one turned to me.

"You would perhaps wish to look around a little first. I have many pets here, and I think the young lady could find one a little more interesting. Perhaps?”

I can tell you v/hat kind of a glance he gave me. It was a look that made it impossible for m.e to say "No.” I can’t explain that. Maybe Dale Carnegie could, but I’ve a hunch this Hindu had a lot Dale Carnegie never dreamed of. It wasn’t sales personality he turned on, it was the air of command.

"Would you show us?” I heard myself saying.

"But that puppy — Peg wailed.

"This way.” I nudged Peg to follow the dark shop-owner. I was doing a little rationalization on my part. I didn’t want Peggy to get that puppy; I didn’t want to put on its ittsy-bittsy red blanket and take urns out for a nice walk around the block every night. Blazes no! If she could be

BEAUTY’S BEAST


steered into getting a parrot, or goldfish, or even a pet gorilla it was okay by me. But I had no intention of spending my evenings gazing at the trees. So what if this fellow was domineering?

We walked between the long lines of cages. I stared curiously. There were dogs, lots and lots of dogs. Chinese Chows, Toys, Pekes; exotic little creatures with curiously bright eyes. That was funny. No common western breeds.

"Imported?” I asked.

"Yes, sir. All imported. I bring them from the East. Fine blood. Some of the best, sir.”

CAGES of birds; gilded, ornamental cages with curiously-designed bars, teakwood perches of oriental patterns. They held canaries with bodies like golden, living notes; finches and nightingales, scarlet humming-birds with peacock purple crowns. And in larger grilled prisons were blood-beaked macaws, white cockatoos, heavy-crested parrots with blinking eyes. "Quite a collection,” I said.

"From all over the world,” answered the Hindu, softly. "From all over the world they come.” But he didn’t stop to expound further, didn’t offer to show us anything. We passed a crystalline counter of fishbowls, passed the insane eyes of a million wriggling exotics. And then Peg grabbed me in the gloom and I felt her body trembling against mine.

"Snakes!” she shuddered, in a voice hard with loathing.

From their pits the vipers swayed, the cobras crawled, undulating in the evil glory of their poisonous beauty. Eyes bright as Lucifer blazed upwards in the darkness, and the air was filled with a sluggish rustling that sounded against my spine in little cold notes of horripilation.

"Beautiful, are they not?” murmured our guide. "In my country they worship them. I had great trouble procuring these.

"Get them yourself?” I asked, merely to hear the sound of my own voice.

"I have secured everything in the shop — personally,” answered the tall man.

"You mean you captured all these things? Sort of a Frank Buck, aren’t you?”

"I bring them back alive.”

Peg giggled feebly as I squeezed her arm and we resumed our inspection. A moment later she grabbed me in the shadows with a low scream.

"Here, now, don’t get so affectionate,” I cautioned. "This is no place for — ”

“Ooooh! Rats, take them away!”

"Merely white mice,” came the soft voice at my side. "From Burma.

"Sacred in the temples, you understand,” continued our mentor. "Like that peacock over there.” He gestured in the darkness. "In fact, I might mention that all the animals in this shop are sacred to Eastern mythology. The snakes, of course, and the Chows in China; the fish are worshipped in Java and the Celebes, and the various birds in Borneo and the Malay States. But I was going to show you the monkeys.”

"Why?”

"I am sure the young lady here will be more satisfied with a monkey. Such as — this one.”

And he stopped before a row of cages at the back of the shop. Stooping, he prodded the bars of a shadow-shielded crate. "Hanuman,” he whispered. "Hanuman.”

"What?”

"I call him Hanuman. After the sacred monkey-god of India,” came the voice. "A temple monkey; tame, intelligent, and very hard to procure.”

I began to wonder whether this Mardu, as his sign proclaimed him, was some kind of nut. Sacred animals! I spotted a tortoise, and a Siamese cat. Half-expected a crocodile and a white elephant.

"Hanuman,” called the Hindu. "Show thyself.”



I stood there in the shadows. Peg at my side, and suddenly something clicked. I knew there was a screwy feeling in the air, and now I placed my finger on it.

It was too quiet. Utterly still. When you go into a pet shop the dogs bark, the parrots squawk, the birds screech, the monkeys chatter. And here it was still. The animals watched us as we passed, but did not move. We had walked down a row of glittering eyes in the darkness, and there wasn’t a soimd. Something wrong.

"What’s the matter?” I asked. "Is it bedtime- in this menagerie?”

"No.” The Hindu smiled. "But my pets are all very well-trained.

"Let me assure you, sir, of that. They are well-trained animals. Temple beasts are intelligent; they are bred with human backgrounds almost in their blood. And I have personally instructed every one. I know you will be satisfied with— ah, Hanuman. Show thyself to the lady, here. She might want to buy thee, little friend.”

The monkey appeared suddenly, head pressed against the bars. And Peg stooped down, looked into the monkey’s eyes. Very quiet was the monkey, and its bright little orbs were timid, but they rested on Peg’s face in mute appeal. Animal magnetism, or something — but silly as it sounds, the little creature had that trusting, ingratiating sort of gaze that nauseated me and went over with a bang where Peg was concerned.

"That is the way,” the Hindu whispered.- "Show that you like the lady, that you trust the lady. She wants to buy you. She wants you. Don’t you, lady?”

The drone of his voice in darkness was almost hypnotic, and Peg stared into the beady little eyes. Auto-suggestion.

"I want him!” Peg stood up. It wasn’t "Isn’t he cute?” or 'VThat an adorable little fellow!” It was "I want him!”

"I thought he would be suited to you

when I saw you,” said the Hindu. "Yes, perfectly suited. You are in complete accord.”

"How much?” I barked.

"To the lady? Ten dollars. A small sum, but they are so perfectly attuned, so beautifully matched that — ”

"She isn’t going to marry the monkey,” I interrupted. "Here’s your ten. Give us the monk and let’s get going.”

"It is done.” He stooped, opened tne door of the cage. The monkey just crouched there. And then Mardu stooped and picked him up in slim, almond hands, and held him for a moment against his face. His long fingers stroked the beast’s fur in a hypnotically soothing caress. And the Hindu whispered softly, unintelligibly, in a strange tongue. The monkey seemed to nod, and it struck me so funny I let out a guffaw; whereupon Peg kicked me in the shins.

Ah. Here you are. Treat Hanuman well; I have told him much of you. And do not forget Mardu.

Peg took the monkey on her shoulder and we walked down the aisle of the shop, the smiling Hindu behind us.

Do not forget — ”

Peg smiled and the monkey made that ridiculous nodding gesture. I stood on the sidewalk and laughed.

"All right,, Peggy. Where do we buy the organ?”

"He’s wonderful. I’m going to take him to the part}'.”

"To Leonard Merril’s?”

"Why not?”

"Well, I admit he’s an improvement over the average run of Leonard’s guests, but don’t you think that — ”

We walked down the street. The monkey clung to Peg silently and its eyes never left her face.

"Wasn’t that the queerest place?’

"That’s what I’m thinking,’ I answered. A mighty queer place.”

BEAUTY’S BEAST


"And that Mar du — ^he has such an air about him.”

"So has the place. Whew!’,’

"Oh, don’t talk that way. Honestly, I’ll bet he’s a wonderful man. 'The way he handled those animals. Like some old Brahmin priest or something. Don’t the Hindus believe that animals have human souls.^ Reincarnation, isn’t it?”

"I don’t know, I don’t like flowers. Hurry up and drag that soulful baboon of yours to dinner.”

What Peg had said started me thinking. It was a queer place, and the Hindu v.^as a strange man. I determined to go back there and ask a few questions. Sometimes there’s a story behind such things; wouldn’t hurt to find out. If Mardu were a renegade holy man, now, who collected sacred animals and sold them to those he thought were psychically attuned to the spirit of the beast — Oh, the devil with it. But he had steered Peg off the puppy, and almost hypnotized her into buying the monkey. I wondered what he would have picked out for me. I hoped it would be a chicken, fried. I v/as hungry.

"Here we are. Peg. Upstairs quickly or I’ll shove Hanuman here betv/een two slices of rye bread and eat out on the steps.”

"Nasty!” Peg faced me. "Thanks for buying me the monkey, you swine.” She put her arms around me and her face very close so that I stood on the brink of eternity as we kissed. Sometimes Peg could be very nice that way; so sweet and aiddly that I’d forget she used red nail polish. Right now she turned my heart into a creampuff, and then I drew away and I saw the monkey watching me with glittering little eyes and it clawed at Peg, pulling her face around.

"Well look who’s jealous,” Peg giggled. "You’ve got a new rival.”

"He needs a shave,” I grumbled.

But I noticed that Peg didn’t look at me

any more, just stared at the monkey as wc went up the stairs and knocked on Leonard Merril’s door.

Inside, everybody stared at the monkey, too. -

All during dinner they stared, and Peg told her story, and I just ate. The monkey rested very quietly on Peg’s lap, and looked up at her whenever she gave too much attention to one of the other guests. It tugged at her shoulder in the irresistibly human gesture of a small child, and it wasn’t long before everyone noticed it and began making cracks about jealousy, and a few off-color comments that might have made me burn if they weren’t so damnably funny and appropriate.

"What you going to call it?” asked Leonard Merril, as we went into the living room.

"I don’t know,” Peg mused.

"Just plain Mr. X will do,” I growled. "That’s the best way of referring to the third member of a romantic triangle.”

"Mr. X it is, then.”

"Beauty and the Beast,” said Merril. "Where’d you say you got it. Peg?”

"A place called Mardu’ s down on Flynn - Street. I told you about this funny Hindu that runs it — ”

" Mardu’ s?” It was Mrs. Merril who interrupted. "Why, that’s where Lillian got Toby.”

"What Toby?”

"That — ^that snake.” Mrs. Merril shuddered. "A fine sister I’ve got. I can’t understand it; she’s always hated reptiles, and yet only about a week ago she came home with a nasty little cobra she keeps in a wire cage and feeds live mice to — ^ugh!”

"Really?”

"It’s the truth. And now that you mention it, she got it at Mardu’ s. She told me she passed there and happened to notice a puppy in the window, but this fellow that runs the shop started talking to her and she — ”



ISTOPPED listening. I knew the rest.

So she went in to buy a puppy and came out with a snake. Like Lou Holtz’s story about Lapidus going to the race-track, taking bad advice and betting on the wrong horse; listening to the same fellow again and betting on the wrong horse again until he loses all his money; deciding to spend his last dime for a bag of peanuts only to buy popcorn instead on the advice of this same stranger. So the puppy in the window was a decoy, and Mardu sold his customers what he felt was best. All right — but why?

"You know Lillian is absolutely devoted to the horrid thing?’’ Mrs. Merril was in full conversational cry. "Why, the kiddies are beginning to complain that she neglects them to spend all her time with that nasty monster. And she goes to Mardu’ s every day; he’s supposed to be teaching her Hindu philosophy. One would think that the man had hypnotized her. I declare, if I didn’t know my own sister better than that I’d be scandalized!”

Looking suddenly at Peg, I caught her staring at the monkey. And right then and there I had the hunch — ^the hunch that was cold along my neck.

"Let’s go,” I whispered. "Let’s pick up Mr. X and get out of here.”

Peg shrugged and rose as I made my excuses. We departed. I didn’t want Peg to ' hear any more about Lillian and her pet. It would be too easy — first thing I knew Peggy would be dropping in at the Hindu’s place, and hearing some "philosophy” and I had just one strong notion that I didn’t want this to happen.

We walked home very quietly. I was silent, worried by something I couldn’t quite shape into thought. As for Peg, she was crooning at the monkey. It clung to her, clung to her; I wondered if it would leave her when she went to bed. Its paws sunk into her shoulder and it clung like a little black leech, like an incubus. Its eyes

glittered in the moonlight. What had the Hindu whispered to it when he took it from its cage?

Oh, that was nonsense! But it wasn’t nonsense when Peg ignored me in favor of the dizzy orang-utang, and it wasn’t nonsense as I kissed her good-night to feel those tiny paws clawing at my hair, pulling my head away from hers. No, that wasn’t nonsense.

I went to bed with the grim determination of seeing Mardu again the next day. There were some things I had to find out. No need of letting my imagination run riot, but still I intended to inter\dew my Hindu friend and get matters straight.

I awoke next morning as the phone rang. It wasn’t Peg. It was Sullivan, my agent, and he bawled out his orders in a peremptory voice. An hour later I was on the train, and for a week I was much too deep in work to think much about Hindus, animal trainers, or pet monlceys with a motlrer fixation.

But I came back, and I hadn’t changed my shoes before the phone tinkled, and Peg’s voice did a ditto. No, it didn’t tinkle this time. She sounded grave.

"Hello, just get in?”

"No, darling. No, how are you. No, when can I see you.” And she sounded upset.

"What’s happened, Peg?”

"Lillian’s dead.”

"Who?”

"Lillian. Mrs. Merrils’ sister. You remember, the one that bought the snake from Mardu. Oh, it’s just awful — ”

"Be right over.” I hung up, broke the lace in excitement as I changed shoes, and dashed.

I don’t know what I expected to find at Peg’s place, or what I expected to hear. Probably Peg sprawled out, strangled by the rqonkey; with a wild note revealing that Lillian had been bitten by her snake, and that Mardu was a Hindu murder masBEAUTY’S BEAST


ter who sold killer beasts to his victims. Something like that made my heart thunder as I ran upstairs and knocked on Peg’s door.

But there stood Peg, cool and slim. She was all right, then. But the monkey was perched on her shoulder —

Its beady little eyes were stabbing at me, but I could only see the figure of the

"Let’s have it,’’ I said. "Let’s have it straight.”

"Nothing’s the matter with me,” Peg answered. "It’s Lillian. And even that isn’t so bad. I guess I was a little hysterical when I called you; it came so suddenly. I just heard today.”

WE SANK side by side on the sofa, and that damned monkey was grinning on her shoulder, like some eavesdropper. She didn’t seem to mind, or even to notice its presence; but every once in a while her hand rose unconsciously to caress the simian. She caressed it the way Mardu had caressed it and its eyes shone.

"It sounded so funny, darling. Merril called me. It happened last night; heart attack or something. She was in the studio, playing to Toby.”

"Toby?”

“That snake she bought. Mardu had given her a little silver flageolet like snakecharmers use. She was playing it when she keeled over.” Peg paused. "That’s all there was to it. Leonard saw it happen; the doctor came and certified it.”

"Go on.”

"Why, that’s all.”

"Oh no it isn’t. Don’t try and fool me. Peg. Out with it.”

Peggy bit her lip, then plunged ahead hurriedly. "Oh, nothing else matters much, except for the funny thing that happened today. Mardu showed up at Merril’s house and took the snake.”

"What?”

“This morning.' He came to the door and asked for his snake. Said that if the lady was dead she wouldn’t need it any more and he would like to buy it back.”

"Did he get it?”

"Merril almost threw it at him. Pie went away then.” Peg sat staring, one hand caressing the monkey on her shoulder. "But that’s what upset me so at first. You see, Mardu didn’t ask if Mrs. Merril had died, he knew she was dead before he came.”

"Peg.”

"Yes.”

"Have you been to Mardu’s since that night? Look at me — ^have you?”

"I_”

"Thought so! Now what’s all this? Why did you go?” I

"I had to.”

"Had to?”

"To find out about the dreams. I haven’t told you that, have I? That I’ve been dreaming of Hanuman?”

"I thought the monkey’s name was Mr. X?”

"No. His name is Hanuman. That’s what Mardu tells me. I must call him Hanuman.”

The look in her eyes, the vacant look that was not Peg, unnerved me. I shook her shoulders, none too gently. "Come on, now; those dreams!”

"All right. They started that first night. I put Hanuman in the kitchen and went to bed. I wasn!t conscious of falling asleep, and the first thing I knew Hanuman was in the room, next to my bed. He hopped up to my pillow and snuggled next to me, and began to talk. Not chatter, but talk. At first it was all a drone, then I could make out words, and then I recognized the voice. It was like Mardu’s — soft, whispery. He was telling me things; things I could jeel rather than understand. He talked for a long time, but I wasn’t frightened. Then I seemed to wake up. It had all been so real I half expected to find the monkey



lying next to me, but of course it wasn’t there. I knew then that I’d been dreaming. Funny though, I couldn’t remember those important things Hanuman had said to me. I went out to the kitchen and there he was. It may sound kind of foolish, but I was all worked up and in a da2e, and I began to speak to the brute. Of course he just blinked at me. So I went back to bed. The next day you left and I went to Mardu’s.”

“Go on.”

"I told him. He just smiled, and asked me if I remember what Hanuman had said, and when I answered no, he laughed and asked me to sit down. I did, and he explained that I must have been unconsciously hypnotized. That was the funniest thing, because you know I’d been thinking so myself. Yes, the night we bought Hanuman in the dark, Mardu’s voice had influenced me. By association — Mardu and the monkey — it had carried over into my subconscious in sleep. Peculiar, wasn’t it?”

"Very,” I said, curtly.

“Well, this Mardu is really quite a person. He found out I was interested in psychology, and he began to tell me what the Flindus have learned of the subject; how the Brahmin holy men can control the mind, and influence others. He studied in some temple or other himself at one time; I believe it was a temple of Yama, he said, and what he found out about animals in particular was of great help to him in his work. He told me how trappers can hypnotize animals, and how snakes are charmed, and how sometimes in the temples the priests teach certain animals to actually hypnotize human beings!”

“What’s that?”

"Oh, it’s only a sort of legend in the East; they think that snakes hypnotize birds, and that sometimes the animals can learn tliat power. It’s all mixed up with a lot of other things he taught me, about the

theory of reincarnation. You know I said something like that when we first met him; that he might be inteersted in reincarnation. Funny that he is. He believes absolutely that men go through all kinds of incarnations on earth; starting out as the lowest insects and gradually, life after life, evolving into human form. If a life is good, the soul is rewarded by ascending to a higher form in the next existence; if a life is bad, the soul sinks to a lower animal state. That’s one of the fundamental principles of their religion, you know.

"Mardu talked about how all religions believe that gods once walked the earth in the shape of beasts; the Egyptians and the Greeks and the Hindus, of course. He told me about lycanthropy as a universal superstition— oh, thousands of things! He’s quite an educated man. Well, in the end he had me quite calmed dov/n; warned me not to worry about any more dreams, and gave me this.”

Peg pulled it from her blouse — the tiny silver pipe with the worn scroll design in the metal. “He said I should play the pipes to Hanuman every night before I went to sleep; that it would show my mastery of the beast and thus reassure my own subconscious and keep me from dreaming. So I have. And then — I heard about Lillian.”

I gave her a long look. What I saw didn’t satisfy me yet.

"All of it,” I whispered. “Come on, all of it. You went back to Mardu’s again, didn’t you? And your dreams didn’t stop, did they? And before Lillian died you saw her and she told you — ”

“That Mardu was a wizard and that the little silver pipe was a token of his power, and that the snake came to her in dreams and whispered, and she was afraid of — ”

PEG blurted it out as though she couldn’t stop. But it stopped her. Crawling up to her mouth its tiny paws raked her lips. And Peg fainted,

BEAUTY’S BEAST


I grabbed at the furry little monstrosity, but it chittered and leapt to the floor. Then I was chafing Peg’s wrists and whispering her name, kissing away the bright trickle of blood from her lips. She sat up and clung to me for a long, shuddering moment, and then she got control of herself.

"See no evil, hear no evil, speak no evil,” she said, in a voice with a ghost of amusement. "The three monkeys. Well, indeed.”

"Where’s that damned pipe?” I demanded. "I’m going to smash it. And then I’m going down and smash Mardu. Fakir, holy man, medicine man, magician — whatever he is!”

"It’s raining,” said Peg. She was staring out the window. The drops thundered down. '"The pipe? Why— Hanuman has it.” Indeed, the monkey, now perching on the mantel, clutched the silver pipe to its bosom.

I went for that monkey. I went for him for half an hour, in the midst of the most torrential rainstorm I’ve ever seen. The lights went out, and I stiunbled after the elusive beast in the dark. Then Peg got frightened and began to cry, and I comforted her. Chasing an inhuman intelligence in pitch-blackness isn’t a pleasant thing, and I’d rather not talk about it. But the way that diabolical little simian eluded me was uncanny. At the end of the half hour I was nearly as hysterical as Peggy, and quite willing to believe her story. Mardu hadn’t hypnotized me, but I knew.

I knew as I took Peg in my arms, there in the rainswept darkness, and I understood her murmurings.

"You know w’hat Lillian was afraid of, don’t you? And why Mardu knew she died, and wanted that snake back— You know why he keeps those pets now, and why they are so quiet, and why he only gives certain ones to certain people? You know what he means by reincarnation, and animals that can hypnotize, just as music can.

Little silver pipes. You know what the dreams mean, and why every night they get stronger and stronger and Mardu calls me and pulls me out of myself into — ■” "Don’t be silly,” I said, but I didn’t believe she was silly. And somewhere in the dark room was the monkey. I could almost feel it grin.

"But why?” I said aloud. "You see, dear, it isn’t reasonable. If it’s all a trap to do — what you’re hinting — Mardu must have some purpose behind it all. He hasn’t, so your notion is absurd.”

Only inside my head it wasn’t absurd. I’d figured it out. Peggy had said he was a priest of Yama. Yama is the god of Death and Flell. Mardu was the Hindu equivalent of a devil worshipper. Now a devil worshipper has one aim; to degrade God and His works, to puli men’s souls to Satan. A Hindu devoted to Yama and working for the devil, would degrade others. If he believed in reincarnation, used hypnotic powers, he would try to degrade others by dragging them back, lowering them on the reincarnative past by putting their human souls into —

But no. This was the Twentieth Century. Snakes and monkeys, even temple snakes and monkeys, cannot hypnotize human beings, cannot whisper in dreams, cannot pull a human soul out of its body and — oh, this was the Twentieth Century — Or it was a mad world of thunder and lightning and skirling rain. I went to the window. The streets swirled in water. It was rising from the river. Flood-level or over.

Peg whispered behind me very softly. "I went there today. I took a look at the snake Mardu had given Lillian. He tried to hide it, but it was lying there in a box. When it saw me it opened its eyes and I knew, and then I screamed and ran out before he could stop me. But I knew.”

"Nonsense,” I said, but the thunder drowned it out.



“He must be stopped before he does what I know he’ll do. That monkey — the next time I fall asleep it will whisper again and pull me out and I can’t fight any longer, I can’t!’’

“I’m going to Mardu’s now,” I said.

“In this storm? The river might — ”

“Take a chance. Got to. You stay here. Get hold of that monkey — he’s hiding somewhere here. And beat its brains out. Yes, kill it! Then wait for me. I’ll be back.”

She clung to me in the darkness, and I could hear the rain, and her heartbeat, and above that a faint, evil rustling as the unseen simian scampered grinning round the room.

“Be careful,” Peg whispered.

ISLAMMED the door and raced through water-swept streets. 'The pools rose above my anldes, but I made my apartment. I ran in, opened my desk-drawer, and pulled out the revolver lying there.

Then the phone rang. I knew right away who it was. Peg. She’d dissuade me. Well, let her —

"Hello.”

The phone just buzzed. I held the receiver close. Brrrrrrr. And then, a chattering. A chattering. Monkey-chattering.

I never stopped to hang up. In a moment I was out on the swirling streets, running madly with the revolver in my hand. I banged on Peg’s door, then forced it with my shoulder.

Blackness within, but I had matches. Peg lay there on the floor, the little silver flageolet in her hand. Slie hadn’t fainted.

It must have come to her suddenly in the darkness; dozing off, then the drone of monkey-voice, Mardu’s voice, compelling her to play. And in that playing, a hypnotic linkage took place.

But that was insane. She’d had a shock, heart attack. 'That devilish little beast had done it. Where was it?

Tugging at my ankle. I looked down, striking a second match. The iponkey was at my side. The monkey that always hated me. It was tugging at my leg, whining, and it looked upwards with a gaze so startlingly familiar that my own heart skipped a beat.

"Devil,” I muttered, and struck out. It avoided the blow, but made no move to scurry away. It just looked up, patiently, and then it whined, whimpered and pointed. First at the body, then at its own chest. And it tugged my leg. It led me over to the phone, indicated the mouthpiece.

Sure. Peg had suffered a heart attack, and then she had phoned me and chattered like a monkey.

But it had to be that way. This other was too much.

And still the monkey whined, and when I picked it up it tugged at my shoulders and pointed at the door.

All right. I was crazy. I was going to be guided by a monkey. I was going out on the dark, flooded streets, down to the river-front where the water was rising; all at the instigation of a pet monkey.

Then I looked at the white body of Peg on the floor and I looked at the monkey and I made my decision.

"Come on,” I said.

I stopped thinking right there. The streets were knee-deep in water. Through thunder and storm-streaked flashes of fury I waded, a wet-furred monkey chattering on my shoulder. Crashing through flooded darkness, down towards the river, down to the dark shop on Flynn Street to avenge something my sanity wouldn’t let me believe.

The shop was a blur of darkness in a sea of ink. The monkey chattered shrilly, urging me forward through the circling waters. I rattled the door as thunder boomed, then drew my revolver.

The monkey screeched and left my

BEAUTY’S BEAST


shoulders. It climbed the lintel. And then the wet brown form wriggled upwards through the transom, dropped inside the shop. A moment later the door opened, and a flood of water drenched the floor as I swept inside.

It was silent. Even in the storm the animals did not cry out, but a thousand eyes burned through the darkness. The monkey scampered before me, leading me.

A thousand eyes watched our progress. A thousand — How many of them were animals? Mardu had travelled all over the world, he said. In how many cities had he opened a pet-shop, sold his beasts, and had them returned? How many of these strangely silent animals had come back? I must avenge Lillian, and Peg, and how many others?

We were almost at the end of the shop when the simian paused before me. It crouched next to a low, box-like cage with a netting front. It chattered. And answering through the blackness came a hiss.

Monkeys hate snakes. But Lillian had a snake —

The beast fumbled at the netting. And then something moved, something wriggled across the floor ahead of me. There was hissing and chattering. I tiptoed forward and we came to the door. Then the monkey tugged at my leg, looked up with those bright eyes I knew too well. I pushed open the dcwr, just a crack.

A single candle burned in the room within. Mardu was lying on a cot in the small back room. Whether he slept or whether his attitude was one of Yogi-like repose I cannot say. He was motionless as though in a trance. I raised my revolver, but the monkey squealed softly.

I stood there in the doorway as surging waters rocked the timbers of the shop; stood there as the monkey and serpent crept through the small opening, scurried across the floor. I could not move, I could only stare. The waters groaned against

the house, and I felt a swaying. I knew it was time to be getting out, the river was loose. But I couldn’t move. I could only watch the grotesque brown figure moving across the floor to Mardu’s cot.

The sleeping face, the brown, impassive face of Mardu, suddenly quickened with, animation. The Hindu opened his eyes, and it was as though all hell yawned within their lambent depths.

"You here?” he whispered, staring at the creeping monkey before him. “But this must not be. Tonight was the night — ^yes — I directed that. But I meant to call tomorrow for you. You would not come of your own free will— or would you?”

The monkey stared. And then I understood. It was stalling for time. For, unobserved, up the side of the cot, the snake was crawling.

Thunder sounded, the waters crashed against the timbers, and still I watched through the crack of the doorway as the Hindu gazed down at the monkey, his face a mask of perplexity. Suddenly his tone, his word-choice altered.

"Ah! Can it be that I have failed? Hast thou failed, Hanuman? Did I not direct thee, animate thy purpose in dreams? Didst thou not take the woman’s psyche and incarnate — ”

I watched the snake, wriggling unnoticed at the Hindu’s side. It lashed upwards. Again the thunder blared, but Mardu’s scream of terror drowned out the very voice of Nature. The Hindu sat bolt upright as a green band of horror tightened against his throat. His hands tore at the surging coils, his eyes bulged.

And then the monkey raced forward, chattering in triumph. Its tiny claws raked Mardu’s chest, its teeth sank again and again near the heart. The snake tightened its embrace, encircling Mardu’s brown throat with a jade necklace of death.

A crash, the tinkle of glass, and the sudden scream of animal terror sounded from



the shop without. The place was flooding. And yet I could only stare at the strangling Hindu, stare at vengeance.

The monkey leaped from the brown body to my waist, chattering wildly.

Its paw pointed toward the door. It tugged my shoulder. I nodded. I gestured toward it, but it shook its head. For an awful instant our eyes met again, and then I plunged away. From behind me I heard a gurgling moan, but I did not look back.

IFOUGHT my way through the shop as water rose. Dying animals in cages yelped beneath the oncoming torrent soon to rise; floating crates blocked my path and the water surged ponderously in menacing waves, but I fought through. The street was waist-deep, and as I cleared the doorway the shaking shop began to sag in the blackness. Cursing and gasping, I staggered through grinning chaos.

Wet to the skin, thunder-deafened and lightning-blinded, I went on. There were no thoughts left to think, no emotions left to feel. There was only an urge that drove me forward. The shop was gone, Mardu was gone, and PegWhy, I was back at the apartment, walking the steps to her flat. How long had I struggled? What unreasoning instinct had brought me here? The forced door svaing open on darkness. I lurched in.

"Peg!”

She was lying limply on the sofa, but a single candle gleamed, and^as I rushed forward she sat up, smiling weakly.

"Darling, I must have fainted when you left, but the monkey’s gone and I feel — all right. What happened?”

“Don’t -you know?”

"Of course not. How could I? I had a spell, or something.”

"But I thought—”

"Tell me.”

I told her, whispering witliin the circle of her arms. She smiled and nodded, and it was good to see her smile and nod. But I kept wondering. Hadn’t it happened, then? Was the monkey just a monkey after all? Had a beast led me to that shop and exacted vengeance? It must have been so, because Peg was here. Or else — when Mardu died Peg had been released. Perhaps she hadn’t changed long enough for the astral connection to become permanent. Perhaps there was a secondary spell which Mardu performed when the animal was returned. Or I might have i.magined the whole thing. Yet the revolver in my hand disproved that. And the absence of the monkey backed it up.

I told Peg the story straight, though, and then added my doubts. "Are you sure?” I said. "You didn’t know, didn’t feel?”

Peg smiled.

"You must have been imagining things,” she said. “That’s the trouble with you, darling, you have such a perfectly silly imagination. Of course, your idea that I was a monkey and led you to Mardu’s is cockeyed.”

"Peg,” I said. "Either you’re a very brave girl in trying to spare me those memories, or you’re just a stubborn, sweet damn fool. Now which is it?”

"Wouldn’t you like to know?” said Peg. And she gave me a look. It was quite a knowing look — she grinned like a monkey, and I remembered another look that a monkey had given me, and I had terrible doubts. Then Peg kissed me and I didn’t bother about doubts any more.

There would be plenty of time for arguing later. Peg and I always argued anyway. But from now on, I determined, there would be only one argument I’d stand for with Peggy — whether it would be a boy or a girl. And even then, I hoped we might reach a compromise in time.

By AUGUST W. DERLETH

Tibet isn’t particularly gentle when it comes to affairs of vengeance.

r ^ ^HE blinds in the house on Park I Lane went down, a servant apJL peared to sweep before the imposing dwelling secure in its little grove of trees in London’s heart, and the bobby observed that Brooks Altimer would be coming home again. Indeed he was, with all the customary fanfare attending an explorer of his prominence. Respectful notices appeared in the press, hints were gravely made about his latest discoveries, and humor had it that this time, without fail. Brooks Altim^er would be knighted by his king.

“This time,” said Brooks Altimer to a small group around his table that evening.

“I have really brought back something worth while.” He paused to appreciate to the full the awed silence and respectful waiting that greeted his words, his big blue eyes shining with pride, his thick-lipped mouth curved in a slight, almost disdainful smile. "Yes, I’ve done it; I’ve brought back an amulet from one of the forbidden shrines of Tibet. I believe you said I wouldn’t be able to accomplish it, didn’t you, Norcross?”

Norcross leaned his tall body across the table and looked at the thing held carelessly in Altimer’s hand. "I believe I did,” he said. “My apology. I was wrong.” He fixed his sharp eyes on Altimer. “Bvit




how did you accomplish it? It must have been difficult — very difficult.”

Altimer brushed aside the suggestion of difficulty with the nonchalance of a prima donna waving away her fiftieth bouquet for the evening. "I suppose difficulty is a relative term,” he said casually. “I had a little, yes. But I wouldn’t have thought of it, if you hadn’t mentioned it. Unpleasantness, rather. I managed to bribe one of the priests and everything was made easy for me, but unfortunately some old fanatic came rushing out at me just as I took the amulet from the shrine. I was forced to deal harshly with him lest he make an outcry, and had the misfortune to cut off both his hands with the weapon I carried. I was in disguise, of course.”

"He wasn’t another priest, then?”

LTIMER shrugged. "I doubt it, though he did come from behind the shrine.”

Norcross grimaced. "Both hands! Ugh! Blighter bled to death, I suppose.”

“I supose he did,” replied Altimer with equanimity. "I lost no time in making my escape.”

"With many maledictions upon you, no doubt,” said another member of the party.

Altimer laughed. "Oh, yes — there are always curses and such; one expects them.” He clapped his hands. "Now, then — to port, gentlemen.”

Altimer’ s amulet was duly photographed, pictures appeared in the press, Altimer’s exploit was lauded and Altimer was praised so fulsomely that he would have been inflated to the limit had he not already been in that state for several- years prior to his accession of the amulet. His cup was almost full; one of the London society columnists linked his name with that of a very prominent young woman and stated that "a Certain Person had spoken highly of Altimer’s amulet during tea in Buckingham Palace Gardens.”

For ten days Altimer rode very high;

then he came back to earth with a disturbing jar.

The occasion of Altimer’s forgetting the pride-making attentions he had been receiving was the delivery of a package. It was a very small package from Tibet. Consumed by that impetuous curiosity which had always lain behind his great explorations, Altimer opened it at once. What he found was not pleasant.

It was a shrunken human head.

Close scrutiny revealed it as the head of that one of the Tibetan priests whom Brooks Altimer had managed to bribe, making possible his acquisition of the amulet.

He was properly alarmed. Not that he put any faith in those strange stories, of ancient powers possessed by the priests of the old shrine in Tibet, but simply as a matter of principle. He arranged to take lunch with Sir Linden Fledra, w'ho had forgotten more about Tibet and the rest of the ancient world than Brooks Altimer would ever know — though Altimer would never have admitted such a thing even to himself. Even now, he sought advice only, and over the table casually told Sir Linden about his amulet.

«T^1LCHED it, eh?” said Fledra indeli-

-L cately, his sharp old eyes fixed unwaveringly upon him.

"You put it rather directly,” protested Altimer mildly.

"Only way to put it,” retorted Fledra shortly. "And I’ll put it to you that you’d better get it back just as soon as possible. That head was as distinct a warning as you could have been given. What do you expect tliem to do? Serve you with formal notice?”

“I have no intention of restoring the amulet,” said Altimer.

Sir Linden Fledra snorted. "Then make your will, Altimer. Pity you don’t have a few more years in which to function. You

ALTIMER’S AMULET


might conceivably make a name for yourself.”

Altimer ignored this patent thrust. "Do I understand you to mean that you put any stock in the so-called ancient powers of the Tibetan priests, Sir Linden?”

Fled'ra clucked. "Dear me, you seem to me remarkably obtuse, Mr. Altimer. Certainly I put stock in them; I’ve seen them at work. Remarkable! No, sir, you’ll be well advised to take my advice, and henceforth devote your time to something worthwhile, and not dubious peccadillos!”

Altimer held himself in only briefly. When he got ready to go he delivered a fifty-line address to the effect that Sir Linden Fledra had grown into a pathetic old dodderer. The old man cackled mirthfully and tang for his servant to show Altimer out.

"A posthumous knighthood won’t do yuh much good, will it?” observed the old man at parting.

Despite his visible aplomb, Altimer was disconcerted, and it was only by the most exacting discipline that he was able to put away all thought of his disagreeable experiences with the package from Tibet and old Sir Linden Fledra. He managed to invest his activities for the day with a certain sense of security, strong enough to enable him to speak of old Fledra as "ailing, poor fellov/!”

This sense of security lasted him less than twenty-four hours.

In the night he awoke with the feeling that an intruder was in the house. He got up quietly; he was not entirely fearless, but he could deal with an ordinary burglar. He listened. The sounds were unmistakable: drawers opening and shutting, doors pulled away and quietly closed again, a scuttering sound which must have been of someone walking. He went out into the blackness of the upper hall and determined that the sound came from his studio.

Down he went, well armed, and sidled up to the studio door which he opened noiselessly — only enough so that he might turn on the light. There was no one in the room; the windows were locked, everything was in order. He searched carefully, but there was not a cranny in which anyone could hide, and presently he withdrew.

Nevertheless, he was not quite satisfied, and stood uncertainly in the lower hall now. Within a minute, the scuttering began again, the opening of drawers and cabinet doors. Clearly it emanated from the studio. He pondered a quick invasion of the studio, but reflected sensibly enough that he had just completed such an entry. Despite a gathering of perspiration cold on his forehead, he pushed open the door without turning on the light.

For a long minute he saw nothing, but his eyes held to the patch of light visible on the floor, dim light cast by the corner lamp, and presently his patience was rewarded. Something scuttered across it, not one, but two. Rats! he thought. But rats could hardly open drawers, and this was going on again! He leaned weakly up against the door jamb and pondered a strategic withdrawal.

At that moment the invaders scuttered across one edge of the parallelogram of light again. He saw them quite clearly.

rjlHEY were a pair of hands, chopped short at the wrists, running along on fingertips! The long, thin fingers with their yellow color made stronger by the light from outside were too suggestive to lend themselves to any other explanation than that which occurred to Altimer.

It took him every available ounce of self-. control to draw out of the studio, shut the door, and get back to his own room. Carefully, if a little fatuously, he locked the door and sat in the darkness pondering what to do next. Three possible explanations occurred to him at once: he had



been having an optical illusion, his imagination overwrought; he had been pre-disposed to expect something like this by Sir Linden Fledra; or there was after all something to those stories of ancient powers possessed by the guardians of the Tibetan shrine. Naturally, he was less disposed to accept the third explanation than either of the other two.

Still, Sir Linden had said nothing about the priest’s hands, and there was certainly nothing in his own mind about the unfortunate beggar who had striven at the loss of his life to protect the sacred amulet. This thought was not comforting. He dressed quietly in the dark, and went out of the house to spend the rest of the night at his club.

Despite his antipathy for the old man, Altimer went to see Sir Linden Fledra once again in the morning. The old man greeted him with that surprised air of someone seeing alive an old acquaintance long thought dead; it was not a reassuring greeting. He seemed, in any event, to have completely forgotten Altimer’s insolence on the occasion of his previous visit, and sat to listen gravely to what he had to say.

Altimer told him all, not forgetting to mention his suspicion of hallucination, indigestion, and possibly suggestion. He looked hard at Fledra when he said this, but the old man seemed entirely preoccupied.

"Well, I suppose they’ve begun to look for the amulet,’’ he said presently. "I daresay the old priest you killed was the shrine’s real guardian; so it would be his job.”

“But, of course, he’s dead,” said Altimer with a little smile.

"Yes, yes,” nodded Fledra. "You see, it would be much easier for him then.” His grin was gargoylesque.

Altimer tried again. "You’re suggesting, of course, that they have power to transcend space and time — and even death?”

"What is death, after all, my dear fellow? There’s an avenue to be explored. You might try to get through to me after you cross over.”

"Or you to me,” said Altimer.

"Oh, I think I’ll hang on a bit yet,” observed Fledra. "You might, too, if you got that amulet back to Tibet.” He shook his head a little fretfully. "Though I’m afraid, very much afraid, that it’s too late. Where is the amulet, by the way?”

“I have it well hidden at home. This afternoon I’ll give it to the British Museum, where it belongs.”

Sir Linden Fledra shook his head and muttered under his breath. He showed Altimer out with an almost tender solicitude, and it was clear in the way he gazed at him that he did not think he would ever see Altimer again.

Altimer made almost indecent haste to bestow the amulet upon the British Museum, not, of course, being so impractical as to forget notifying the press, so that credit might go where it was due, and a Certain Person might have additional evidence of Altimer’s worth to the Crown. The press was wonderful: pictures of Altimer, the amulet, the case where it would repose — His Majesty could hardly refuse knighthood to a man like Altimer!

Naturally, Altimer was well satisfied with himself. He had foiled whatever it was searching for the amulet in his Park Lane home on the previous night, and had gained added prestige in so doing.

Altimer’s amulet, however, was destined to remain in the press for at least another twenty-four hours. So was Altimer, though not in a way he would have appreciated.

As a matter of record, Altimer saw none of the columns, though in time no doubt he might have been as proud of the mystery of Altimer’s amulet as he had been of his acquisition of it. Nevertheless, he knew of it.

He was awakened from sleep that night

ALTIMER’S AMULET

by a call from the Metropolitan police. A divisional inspector was on his way out; would Mr. Altimer be prepared to receive him? The amulet given to the British Museum had that night, less than a quarter of an hour ago, been removed from the case where it had been placed.

"Good God!” exclaimed Altimer. "Who could have taken it? It has no great commercial value!”

"That’s the mystery, sir. It vanished almost before the watchman’s eyes. He’s hardly coherent, since he saw no one — only something he described as rats. Of course, he’s upset. Inspector Warborn will be right out.”

Altimer got up, put on his dressing gown, and went downstairs to the studio. The night was warm; he put on a dim light, ascertained that whiskey and soda were on the sideboard, and opened the window a little, so that the gentle east wind might invade the room. The hum of the city’s heart rose from outside and made itself manifest in the room. He could not get the police call out of his mind.

"Something he described as rats!” He shuddered and contemplated the visit of Inspector Warborn almost with relief.

The inspector, however, was too long in coming. At this moment, while he was hurrying along in a police car, Altimer stood at the window looking out into the street.

A bobby passed under the yellow pool of lamplight and strode off into the

95'

darkness. An instant later, t^'o dark things scurried across the lamplight’s glow on the street, and vanished into his own grounds.

OMETHING like rats!

Altimer backed away from the window. Good God! this thing is driving me out of my mind! he thought.

In a moment more he was beyond even this. There was a rustling sound along the side of his house, and on the window-sill appeared two long-fingered yellow hands, one of which carefully deposited Altimer’s amulet on the sill before it joined the other.

They scuttered off the sill, across the floor, directly to where Altimer stood, fearstruck, watching them. When he felt them on his legs, Altimer screamed once, hoarsely, but, of course, his servants slept too soundly to. hear it, and before he could scream again, the hands had found his throat.

Inspector Warborn discovered Altimer. He had been strangled. "Someone with long nails,” said the coroner soberly. "Possibly an Oriental after that amulet!”

The press was superb. Altimer would have reveled in it. And he got a word from his king. The same busy columnist who had before reported Altimer’s prominence wrote that "A Certain Person had mentioned the late Brooks Altimer and asked who he was and why he had taken the amulet.”

Sir Linden Fledra wrote Altimer’s obituary in ten lines and sent a wreath.

"A single scarlet word burned in her brain... witchcraft!” — a mediaeval novelette of passidn and sorcery.

I

<3

here Are

SOME of this I saw myself, some of it was told me, some of it I reconstructed, adding scrap to scrap, as a paleontologist reconstructs a brontosaur horn fossil fragments salvaged from Jurassic silt.

I was serving with the Army of Occupation, attached to the M. P., since I was one of those whose orders read "to Coblenz”

instead of "to Camp Dix” when the A. E. F. was broken up. Jerry had taken his defeat philosophically and our principal duty at the time was to prevent fraternization between our men and our late enemies of the feminine gender. Periodically a brasshat came down from Ehrenbreitstein to lecture us on this. "G-I and all the folks back home are greatly concerned,” he’d tell us


Such Things

with the smock-faced smugness of a staff man laying down the law to the line. "Think what it would mean to patriotic American mothers if their boys came home with enemy wives — ”

"Listen at the big lug!” muttered Fontenoy apKern, the battalion adjutant. "As if all wives ain’t enemies!” apKern should have known. He was paying alimony to

By SEABURY QUINN

two wives at home and ardent court to a blonde little English girl with buck teeth and a silly simper who drove a car for British headquarters up at Cologne.

Accordingly, duty rested lightly on us. On our own initiative we interpreted the order against fraternizing to mean we were to keep the boys from too great intimacy with Coblenz maidens noted more for care97



free spirits than attention to decorum, and let ’em go as far as they liked with legitimate love-making. Even the brigadier admitted we were wise in this, since keeping billeted soldiers from philandering is about as feasible as King Canute’s attempt to order back the rising tide.

It was the twenty-third of June — Midsummer’s Eve — though the date meant nothing to me then, and I was off duty. With nothing to do for a blessed tv^entyfour hours I’d rummaged through the old part of the city, looked in at the thirteenth century basilica of Saint Castor, crossed the famous Bridge of Boats and found myself in open country, my head pleasantly empty of intention, my throat exceedingly receptive to a draught of liebjrauenmtlch, or beer, if nothing better offered.

I must have walked four or five miles, for the slate-gray roofs of Coblenz shimmered with an almost silvery luster in the brilliant summer sunlight as I looked down on them, when I came upon the Calvary. Time-mattered and overlaid with moss until the original drab of its granite was hardly perceptible, it stood beside the highway where the remnant of a Roman road, now scarcely more than a cart-track, cut across it, a mute reminder of the old faith in the very heart of Rhenish Prussia. The sculptor, probably some pious friar, had cut life, or, more precisely, death — into the cold stone. The corpus fairly writhed upon the road; tense, straining muscles stood out on the arms and legs and torso, the corded throat seemed overfilled with groans of torment, the brow beneath the plaited crown of thorns was knotted and bedewed with the cold sweat of the death-agony. Curiously, whether because of minute particles of mica in the stone or for some other reason, the slanting sunrays struck a sort of half-dulled brightness from the upright of the cross behind the up-thrown, tortured head, giving the effect of an illusive halo. Across the plinth supporting the almost

life-sized crucifix ran what remained of an inscription, "■ — orate pro ejs.”

That puzzled me. I knew the Latin of the Medieval Schoolmen was not like that I had grappled with at Erasmus Hall High School, but... Understanding dawned on me at last. J and I were interchangeable in the Middle Ages, Germanic peoples favoring the J, and Latins using I. Wlioever chiseled that inscription must have been a German, and chose J. That would make the last word read "eis” — ^them — so the remnant of the legend begged the passer-by to "pray for them.”

This too was unusual. Such petitions usually appeared on family monuments, not on wayside Calvaries. Who, I wondered, were "they”? But even as I puzzled over the inscription I was vaguely conscious of another anomoly. These Medieval roadside shrines were placed along the highway, not at crossroads, for at the junction of two roads the witches gathered to mount broomsticks and fly screaming to the sabbat, suicides were buried at such places with stakes driven through their hearts; evil spirits made crossroads their rendezvous. Yet it was certainly a crossroads, and certainly a shrine stood there.

Beyond the hedge of hornbeam, once neatly clipped but now almost as ruinous as the old road sprawling past it, I saw the ivy-mantled relic of a gray-stone tower with what looked like a cottage roof beside it. And with the sight I realized I had walked a long way, that I’d eaten nothing since my early breakfast at the Monopole, and that I was hungry as a pike and thirsty as a sandbanlc. Perhaps the caretaker would sell me luncheon. Poverty was pressing hard on Fritz those days and a little American money would seem like a fortune to the average peasant.

A now, if the Herr Leutnant has completed his repast, he would like to see the ruins, nicht wahr?"



The "Herr Leutnant” had finished his repast, and very good he’d found it. Boiled fowl with dumpling, potatoes fried with just sufficient onion to make them perfect, great slabs of rich black bread with fresh sweet butter, and an apfelstrudel worthy of a king. Apfelstrudel you must know is cake made from dough that has been stretched and beaten to a paper-thinness, then rolled around a core of spiced sliced apple, and is the only thing in the world that outranks a New England apple pie. There had been no wine — worse luck — but the bier was all that could have been desired.

The ruins weren’t very interesting. The outer walls had fallen long ago, taking five of the six watchtowers with them, and the keep was just a square stone building with small windows and no roof. The moat was overgrown with water-hyacinth, and the terraced flower beds were choked with weeds. Still, the old fellow had seemed so anxious to show me the place — his dankerschons were almost overwhelming when I handed him a dollar — that I thought I might as well humor him. We’d made the round, and were back where we started when, “What’s that little building over there?’’ I asked, pointing to an unroofed structure just outside the rim of the old ruined v/all.

Something furtive came into my guide’s china-blue eyes. He licked his lips and looked away, his mouth moved once or twice, but no words came from it. Finally: ’’Na, na, it’s nothing, Herr Leutnant, just the chapel of the Hohenneitschiitz. There is nothing there to interest you—’’

"No?” I broke in. "Let’s have a look at it.” The man, for all his affability, was after all an enemy and I was an alien soldier in conquered territory, and a military policeman in the bargain. If there was something he particularly did not want me to see — and quite obviously he did not want me to inspect the chapel — it was my

duty to investigate. For the first time since I’d left Coblenz I w'as thankful that I’d worn my belt and gun.

"Take me to that chapel and no monkey business,” I commanded sharply, snapping back the flap of my holster. "Go on, get going; shake it up!”

"Jawohll” he answered scarcely audible, shrugging his stooped shoulders as he led the way across the weed-grown flow^er gardens. There was no need to draw my pistol. For generations he and his kind had taken orders unquestioningly from men in uniform. "The Herr Leutnant need not vex himself. I will show the chapel to him, but” — I could see a shiver ripple through his fat form as he spoke— "it holds no interest for the visitor.”

rpHE chapel of the Hohenneitschiitz fam- -L iiy lay unroofed and open to its God. Grass had grown between the flagstones of the floor, the painted glass had long since disappeared from the stone mullions of the slim high Gothic windows. Carven in the walls were epitaphs in monkish Latin which I didn’t bother trying to translate, each with its wreath of coats of arms about it, for the Hohenneitschiitz were related to almost every noble family in the empire.

The sun was slanting toward the horizon and shadows filled the roofless chapel as cool wine might fill a cup. The altar, white stone, much discolored by the elements, took up most of the east wall. Above it was a basalt, lustrous black crucifix, almost man’s-size, at each end were the bronze standards where in ancient days the eucharistic candles burned. I wondered as I looked at those discolored green-bronze candlesticks carved with saints and birds and stiff, unearthly-looking flowers, how long it had been since the scarlet-orange flame had bloomed above them at the tips of white, long, scented tapers, how long since the pungent tang of incense rose before the altar where the tabernacle stood



and a tonsured priest had ended service with his "Ite, missa est.”

A quick reconnaissance almost convinced me there was no place where a mouse could find an ambush in the chapel or a cache of arms be hidden, yet the man’s apparent frightened, furtive manner and his anxiety to be rid of me struck a warning tocsin in my mind. "Who’s this?” I asked as with elaborate unconcern I walked across the chapel pavement, testing each stone for a hollow ring, and paused beside the tomb that filled the space between the altar and the north wall on the Gospel side. "Careful, feller, watch it — keep your eye on him,” that inward voice was warning as I circled round the tomb. The peasant’s florid round face had gone visibly paler, -the fat hand winding in the watch-chain of plaited human hair cabled across his bulging waistcoat had stopped still, he drew his breath in so sharply that it seemed like a sob.

"Na, na, Herr Leutnant,” he responded, almost sobbing with anxiety, "he was no one — nothing — nobody. Come, let us go if the Herr Leutnarit has seen all he wishes—”

"Shut up!” I cut him off. 'Til tell you when I’m ready; meantime, keep your distance, or — ” The gun half-drawn from my holster put pungency in the unspoken threat, and while the little fat man fairly writhed with what seemed like acknowledgment to me, I bent closer to inspect the monument.

Unlike the Calvary which had stopped me on the highway this piece of sculpture was entirely ordinary. The figure. lying supine on the stone sarcophagus was a young man dressed in light plate armor, of the middle fifteenth century I judged by the graceful flutings and ridges on the cuirass and epaulieres. He was unhelmeted, and long hair curled about his ears and underneath his neck. According to the custom of the time his hands were joined

above his breast as if in prayer. I glanced down at his steel-shod feet. They should have rested on a dog or lion or some heraldic animal, or possibly upon a cushion, but to my utter surprise I saw that a goose was nestled dose against them, squatting complacently, feet tucked up beneath her, neck bent in a graceful airve to let her head rest on one shoulder, quite as if she’d waddled in and found the time and place propitious for depositing an egg. Had this been some young scapegrace fool? I wondered. And had the Medieval sculptor taken this sly way of telling future generations of the young knight’s follies? "Who was he?” I demanded of the caretaker.

’’Herr Leutnant, I cannot read the inscription,” he lied shamelessly. "My eyes are bad, the light is poor, the Latin letters—”

I was bending forward while he spoke, deciphering the legend on the stone coffin. He might have told the truth, at that, I thought a moment later, for the letters had filled up with lichen till they were barely visible, and round them the stone had discolored till they scarcely showed against it. Still, I could descry a few dark lines of lettering, "■ — -Junker Gustavus von Hohenneitschiitz und — orate pro ejs — " 'Hiere it was again, that "Pray ye for them.” First it had appeared upon a Vv'ayside Calvary, where it had no business being, now it was on an individual tomb. Not pray for him, but pray for them,

"Is there more than one body interred here?” I asked the peasant.

His reaction to the question was astounding. He was a Prussian of the Prussians, round-faced, blue-eyed, fair-skinned. And doubtless a good Lutheran, too. But as I shot the harmless question at him he raised his right hand and crossed himself.

”Nein, nein, mein Leutnant, he alone is buried there — Gott sei dank! — -but he was very wicked, very foolish, very headTHERE ARE SUCH THINGS


strong, and now he bears a dreadful penalty!” He looked across his shoulder at the shadows which were reaching out along the cliapel pavement with the coming of sunset, and I saw the sweat break out upon his forehead. "Come, let us go, if you will be so gracious, Herr Leutnant, for the sun is setting quickly, and it is the eve of Saint John—”

There was no mistaking the genuineness of his terror. His face was fairly quivering, his jaws hung like the dewlaps of a hound, his eyes were round and dilated, and his mouth began to twist convulsively while spittle drooled from its corners. "Come, for gracious heaven’s sake, Herr Leutnant,” he besought me. "It is the eve of Saint John’s Day, and with the coming of the darkness they have sway upon the earth!”

So that was it. The superstitious fool was scared of ghosts and witches and wanted to be safely away from the Hohenneitschiitz’ family mausoleum before sundown. "All right,” I relented, shoving my gun back into its holster, "run along, but mind the curfew. If you’re caught out after eight o’clock something worse than ghosts will get you, Fritz.”

"Worse than ghosts, Herr Leutnant?” he repeated blankly.

"You said it, old scout. American M. P.’s.”

Half a mile down the road I paused irresolute. Saint John’s Eve was a famous gathering-time for witches, I knew, a night when all the powers of evil held high carnival and the unquiet spirits of the earthbound dead came forth to wreak their spite on anyone unfortunate enough to cross their path. A superstitious peasant might well have dreaded being found away from home at sunset, but —

I’d given young Gustav von Hohenneitschiitz’ coffin a light kiclc, and it had sounded hollow as a kettle-drum. Six feet long and more it was, by three feet wide

and three feet high. What was to prevent arms being stored there? Rifles for a full platoon could be hidden in it, or three or four dismounted machine guns. Tildenson of the Intelligence had told me of a plot the M. P.’s nipped in half-bud down at Treves. They’d found guns and ammunition and about a half ton of "potato masher” hand grenades hidden in a cemetery there — why not in the Hohenneitsdiiitz family tombs up there? Perhaps it had been fear of ghosts that made that little Heinie so jumpy — and perhaps it had been fear I’d run across their arms-cache. He’d certainly tried his best to keep me from the chapel when I wanted to look at it, and it had been broad daylight then.

What to do? Go down to Coblenz, pick up a squad and come back to make a search — and find they’d taken fright and moved the stuff while I was seeking reinforcements? No, that plan was out.

I took my gun out and looked at it. There were five shots in the cylinder. That would be enough to stop ’em unless they were too strong. If they were— "What are you waiting for?” I asked myself. "D’ye want to live forever? Get back there and take cover in the chapel. If it’s all right you’ll have done no harm; if Jerry’s planning something it’s up to you to put a stop to it before it starts, ’Bout face, forward march!”

Kicking my way through the hedge of hornbeam I made a circle of the castle keep, and did the last twenty yards to the chapel in approved skirmish order, wriggling quietly between the weeds that waved waist-high from the flower beds, finally dashing through the door and sprinting up the aisle to find a point of vantage in the angle of the wall beside the altar. Here I was in dense shadow and protected by the stone walls on each side. No one could sneak up on me, I could see anything bigger than a rat that crossed the threshold, and, which pleased me most of aU, had an



unobstructed view of the Junker Gustav’s tomb.

The sunset light had vanished now, and blue-purple shadows slipped across the chapel floor. Looking through a trefoil window in the farther wall I saw a star come out, a mere pin-prick of golden glow against the lilac of the evening sky. Presently, I knew, the moon would be up, and the bars of light that pierced the glassless windows would make it bright enough for me to shoot with some accuracy. Till then I’d have to watch myself. Five bullets weren’t a lot, even if I could make every one count, and I’d no idea how many there would be in the party.

I didn’t feel heroic crouching there against the wall. I felt uncomfortable and foolish. If I’d only had the sense to go *to Coblenz for a detail — we could have commandeered a car and gotten back in half an hour — but no, I had to be a blasted hero, taking on a whole uprising singlehanded. Had I fallen from my high chair and lit upon my head in infancy? I wondered while my muscles cramped and stiffened in the evening chill and every breath of breeze set branches swaying to throw shadows in the doorway, shadows that looked suspiciously like men with rifles in their hands — and I had only a revolver with five bullets in it.

My vigil wavered from the chapel door a moment, for as one may not quite see, yet dimly perceive, an object from the corner of his eye while looking elsewhere, I was aware of something moving by the tomb of Gustav Hohenneitschiitz. My eyes and gun swung simultaneously toward the sepulchre. “That’s it, eh?” the thought flamed through my mind. I’d heard of secret passages with tombs for outlets, now, it seemed, I was about to see —

“What?” the question fairly jumped from my lips, forced out by sudden pressure of surprise. Something like a vapor, tenuous and half-seen as a puff of breath

upon a frosty night, was rising from the statue’s graven lips, fanning out in a slim cone, then hanging lazily in midair.

I felt a sudden chill go rippling down my spine, one of those causeless fits of nervous cold which, occurring independently of outside stimuli, make us say, "someone’s walking on my grave. It wasn’t easy to breathe, and there was a curiously unpleasant feeling in the region of my stomach. It was Midsummer Eve — the caretaker had warned me about ghosts — "Steady on!” I brought myself out of the mental nose-dive. "You know there aren’t such things. Jerry’s trying to pull a fast one — ”

The humid summer heat seemed giving way to a chill which affected the soul as well as the body, a dull, hard, biting cold suggestive of the limitless eternities of frozen interstellar space. The little halitous white cloud swung motionless above the carved stone face, then gently, as though wafted by a breeze, it eddied slowly toward the altar, hung still a moment, then gradually spread out like a smoke-screen laid down by an airplane, a drifting, gently-billowing curtain which obscured the sanctuary from my gaze.

AHORRIFYING thought took hold of me. Gas! In some way they had set a cylinder of phosgene in the tomb, released it through a hidden vent in the statue, and were filling the place with it. Crawling like a snake over the flagstone floor I wriggled from the corner by the altar, making for the doorless portal of the chapel. There would be air-currents there; their pressure would drive back the gas — I looked across my shoulder as I neared the doorway. 'They might be coming out now; I didn’t want to take any chance of being shot at as my silhouette showed in the archway’s faint light.

The gas-cloud still hung like a curtain before the altar, but in it I could see faint



points of bluish light, mere tiny specks of phosphorescence scintillating in the gentlywavering vapor. I flattened to the pavement and lay watching, gun in readiness. They had tried to gas me, and lost the first trick. Now —

Gradually, but with quickening tempo, the little points of light were multiplying till they floated like a maze of dancing midges, spinning luminantly till they seemed to merge and coalesce and form small nebulae as large as glowing cigarette ends, but burning all the while with an intense, blue eerie light. It was as if, in place of the gas-screen, the chapel had been cut in half by a curtain of solid, opaque moonlight.

The little light-points changed from spinning to a slowly weaving motion. The luminous curtain seemed breaking up, falling into a pattern of highlights and shadows.

A picture, as when the acid etches deeply in the copper of a half-tone plate, was taking form before my eyes.

Candles once more glowed in the bronze standards on the altar, their pointed, orange flames made small breeze-raveled stains against the darkness. The altar itself had been bleached from dirty, time-stained gray to spotless whiteness. I could read the legend, "Sanctvs, Sanctvs, Sanctvs” cut across the chamfered slab that formed its top. In the honey-pale glow of the candles I descried a priest, a barefoot, tonsured monk in alb and stole who faced a man and woman standing at the lowest of the three steps leading to the altar.

These were no shades, no pale, anemic ghosts. Each of them was plain and clearcut and distinct. I could see the gleam of light reflected from the gilt fringe of the priest’s stole, make out every detail of the man’s and woman’s costumes, and — ^which settled it — descry the shadows which they etched against the little pool of brightness spilled down by the flickering candles.

Ghosts cast no shadows; I’d heard that since my infancy.

The man stood nearest me, and I could see the narrow corded edge of gold that trimmed his wine-red velvet doublet and the collar of scrolled gold about his neck. A sw'ord with a jeweled pommel hung belted in a velvet scabbard at his left side. His hair was long and fair, curled under at the ends where it swept his shoulders. His face was turned away from me, but in the way he stood, in the way he held his head and shoulders, I seemed to see something vaguely familiar.

The woman standing at his left was partly turned toward me. She was dark and vibrant, with small, sharp, clear-cut features, her hair was very blade and shone with almost blue lights in the candle-rays. She wore it plaited in two long, full braids that swept across her shoulders and hung almost to her knees in front. Upon her head was a small cap of silver netting thickly set with seed-pearls, her gown was shimmering white silk and clung as closely as a sheath to her slim figure, a belt of silver plates w^as clasped about her waist.

ODDLY, though the priest’s lips moved, I heard no words. It was like lookinv at a scene through a sound-proof glass screen, or watching the swift action of a silent motion picture.

But I could fit the words to the action. It was a w'edding ceremony that I watched, and from the places where the parties stood I guessed the priest was asking, as the canon required, if anyone could show just cause wLy he should not unite the man and v/oman in the bonds of matrimony. From groom and bride the celebrant inquired, " — I do solemnly require and charge ye both — ”

Something skittered past me up the chapel aisle. It might have been a windblown leaf, so lightly did it scuff along the flagstones, but — it w'asn’t. It was a girl.



young, slender, lovely as a flower nodding on its stalk, or —

There was something odd — unnatural - — about her. I could make her features out, her clear-cut, small, sweet features, the mistiness of the dark hair that rippled down each side her face and swept across her shoulders. I could see distinctly that she wore a one-piece smock of blue linen with a hempen girdle bound about its waist and that her arms and feet were bare, but also I could see through her. She dulled but did not hide the candles’ light as she stood between them and me. Dimly, as through a fog, I saw the outlines of the white altar behind her; as she stood full in the candle-rays I saw she cast no shadows.

She stretched her empty hands appeal- ■ ingly to the priest. Something had hurt

them, they were crushed and bloody, drops of red welled from her finger-tips and fell down with a slow dribble to the flagstones.

For a minute — or an hour, or eternity, I couldn’t say, for all time seemed suspended— they stood stone-still in a tense tableau, the priest about to say his office, the bride and bridegroom, and the visitant.

Then I saw the bride’s mouth square in a shrill scream of terror, saw her waver like a reed hit by a blast of furious wind and fall full length upon the altar steps. The tonsured priest stepped back and raised his hands as if to ward off physical assault,

then, brought to halt against the table of the altar, made the sign of the cross and spoke in hurrying, gabbling Latin. No sicill in lip-reading was required to tell the words he said: " — te conjuro — ad locum tuum! — I conjure thee, return to thine own place!”

I saw the bridegroom’s fingers crawl up to his throat. His lips drew back, his teeth showed white and hard as they ground on each other. There was less color in his cheeks than in the face of a corpse. Distorted as his features were I recognized

them as those of the stone face of the statue that stretdied supine on the Junker Gustav Hohenneitschiitz’ tomb with hands joined palm to palm as if in prayer. Consternation glazed his eyes, his skin seemed wrinkling as with sudden frostbite. It was not merely fright that held him paralyzed, it was terror multiplied by horror, with sheer panic added to it. "Du? — Thou?” the word jerked from him. "Ach, mein Gott~”

rpHE specter made no answer, but from her waist she took the double-twisted hempen rope that served her for a girdle, wrapped its loose ends about her wrist and swung it like a scourge.

Blow after blow she reined upon the cowering man, striking his face, his shoulders, his neck. He cringed and crouched beneath the flailing lash, holding up his hands to guard his face, dropping them again as the whip bit into his neck, groveling beneath the flogging like a beaten cur.

The maimed ghost-woman pointed with one bloody hand. The trembling, shuddering man obeyed the gesture, and slowly, as though unable to hasten, he walked down the aisle and out into the moonfilled ruin of the castle garden. Step for step she matched his tortured march, striking mercilessly as she flogged him round the angle of the chapel wall. Amazingly, there was no look of anger, hatred or vindictiveness in her still face. It was quiet and immobile, almost void of expression as were the features of those wooden Indians with which tobacconists once advertised their wares. Almost, but not quite. From her set and staring eyes great tears ran slowly, coursing down her bloodless cheeks in one another’s tracks. She didn’t sob or cry or wail, but drop on shining drop the great, slow tears slipped down her face.

I waited breathlessly. Would she — Before I framed the question in my mind I had its answer. She was driving him around



the building in a never-ceasing circle, lashing, scourging, beating him without surcease or mercy.

Again it seemed that time hung in abeyance. How long the beater and the beaten trod their dreadful via Dolorosa I had no idea. I do know that it seemed an age before I heard the far-off crowing of a cock and, fainter still, but silver-sweet in the cool summer morning air, the echo of our bugles sounding reveille in Coblenz.

The beaten man turned in his path and ran into the chapel, paused to genuflect before the altar, staggered drunkenly across the flagstones to the tomb and fell across it. For a long, shuddering moment he lay there, his arms outstretched across the graven image of himself, then raised his swollen, lash-bruised face. I noticed with a start there was no trace of priest or bride left in the sanctuary.

The woman dropped her scourge and took the young man’s cheeks between her crushed and mangled hands. For just a moment she stood thus, then bent and pressed a kiss upon his bloody, swollen lips. Her loosened hair fell round their faces, hiding them from me as with a cloak, and I turned my eyes away. Dreadful as the agony of scourging was, this kiss — ^this embrace of renunciation and farewell — seemed infinitely more so.

The sky was brightening swiftly. In a branch a sleepy bird awoke and scolded musically. I turned again toward the chapel. It was empty. On its bed of weathered stone the statue of the Junker Gustav Flohenneitschutz lay with folded hands imploring mercy. The fragment of his epitaph still showed against the moss-discolored granite, " — orate pro ejs — pray for them,” but of ghostly knight and ghostly peasant maid, of spectral priest and phantom bride there was no sign nor trace.

"Lord, what a nightmare that was!” I exclaimed.

But even as I said it I knew that I had

not dreamed; that what I’d seen had been no dream-bound vision of a sleeping man, but something terrible, inexorable and tragic. "He was wicked, foolish, headstrong, now he bears a dreadful penalty!” the caretaker had said of the Junker Gustav Hohenneitschiitz.

Why? I wondered as I tramped along the road to Coblenz. Who was he and what was his crime? Where did the peasant girl fit in? Why did she scourge his tortured ghost around the chapel from the fall of dusk till cock-crow, and, most of all I wondered, why did she embrace him when the terrible ordeal was done?

<<TTI, LUG!” apKern called to me as I

-L-*- sat in the lobby of the Monopole digesting a so-so dinner and wondering what was happening in Brooklyn right then. The Dodgers would be playing out at Ebbets Field, and —

"Hullo yourself,” I answered none too cordially. apKern had recently been transferred to the Office of Civil Affairs where there was more to do than at the provost marshal’s, and as a result both his leaves and his attentions to the little buck-toothed • British girl at Cologne had been curtailed.

I had troubles of my own and didn’t want to spend an evening listening to his grievances, but his next words made me move over and make a place for him beside me on the lounge:

"I think I know somebody who can shed some light on the mystery of the haunted chapel you’ve been deviling everyone about these last two weeks.”

His accusation wasn’t accurate. I wasn’t going to be fool enough to tell them I’d seen ghosts at Castle Hohenneitsdiiitz — they’d have me up before the psychiatrist so fast my head would swim, and the best thing I could hope for was a discharge for mental disability if I let that story out — but I had made inquiries about the Hohenneitschiitz legend, and probably had been a



nuisance with my questions. "Who is it?” I demanded, tendering him my cigarette case. apKern was chronically just out of cigarettes. I knew he’d stay with me as long as mine held out.

"Cove from the Benedictine convent down by the Castor Platz, sort o’ sub-prior or something, named Brother Ambrose. He comes into the O.C.A. ’bout every ten days, and the other day I got to talkin’ with him. Seems like the Night-Shirt family’s chapel was supplied by Benedictine fraters in the Middle Ages, and most of their old records are down in his convent library. He wasn’t very talkative. Said there- was a curse on ’em, and that there diapel is an evil place, ’specially on Midsummer Eve.” He gave me an appraising look. "That would have been about the time you visited the ruins, wouldn’t it?”

I nodded. "And — ” I prompted, as he took a second cigarette, but made no move to continue his narrative.

"Well, that’s about all, I guess. This Brother Ambrose feller seems to have the dope on the old chapel, so, if you’d like. I’ll make a date for you to visit him next time he comes in. He’s due tomorrow or the next day to get his fuel order renewed.”

"apKern,” I asked, "how would you like a nice, long brandy-soda?” Two minutes later we were in the bar and I was ordering, "Zewi branntwein.”

ONE doesn’t bribe a frater of the Order of Saint Benedict, but I did something very like it when I called at the old convent by the Castor Platz two days later. Tobacco was at a premium in Germany those days, and I’d stopped at the Q.M. for a big tin of Prince Albert on the off chance that Brother Ambrose, like most of his countrymen, was addicted to pipe-smoking. The smile that lit the little cleric’s face when I presented him with the gift was a reward all by itself. Even if he knew nothing about the Hohenneitschiitz curse, I was repaid, I felt, as I watched while he tamped long-cut in his china pipe and set it glowing like a little furnace.

But virtue was not to be its reward alone that time. "Ach, yes,” he answered in his oddly thick English, "those Hohenneitschiitz, I know him— as who does not around these parts? He was a very wicked family, false to his vows of knighthood, false to his plighted word, false to everything. But ah, Herr Leutnant, he has paid a dreadful penalty! On each Midsummer Eve — ”

"I know,” I shot the interruption at him. "I was in the chapel of the Hohenneitschiitz on Midsummer Eve.”

If I had suddenly announced that I was Mephistopheles, or Martin Luther’s shade, he could not have been taken more completely aback. "You — the Herr Leutnant was in that devil-ridden, accursed place on Saint John’s Eve?” he faltered. "Did you — did the Herr Leutnant see — ”

"Hatiirlich. I saw the priest and bride and bridegroom, I saw the peasant maiden’s ghost when she came in to stop the v/edding; I saw her scourge him from the altar and around the chapel — ”

"Heilige Maria!” the little frater blessed himself fearfully. "Then it is truly true; it is not merely legend — there are such things!”

"It’s true enough,” I answered grimly. "I wasn’t asleep and I wasn’t drunk that night. On the contrary I v/as very wide awake and alert, expecting — ” I broke off lamely. After all, it v/as hardly courteous to tell him that I’d been on the lookout for some of his countrymen, expecting to be wiped out but resolved to take a few of them along for company. "It seemed to me that I was witnessing the reenactment of a scene from one of those old tragic dramas,” I completed. "I’ve heard it said there is a theory that stones and wood and similar insensate matter have power to absorb vibrations from human beings laborTHERE ARE SUCH THINGS


ing under great emotion, and give them off again, like tableat/x vivants, when a person emotionally attuned to them comes near. I was very much keyed up that night, and possibly that would explain why I perceived that scene, but why should it be there to see? Do you know the history of the Hohenneitschiitz legend — or should I say their curse? Can you explain what that scene meant?”

He bowed his head in silence a moment, pulling at his pipe with long, thoughtful puffs. "All my life — and I am nearing seventy- — I’ve heard the legend of the Hohenneitschiitz, now from this one, now from that. In our archives we have documents which tell of it, but I have never read them through. You read Latin, Herr Leutnant, nicht wahr?”

"Not well enough to translate Medieval parchments, Father.”

"Jatvohl, I might have known as mucli. The classics are neglected in the scliools tliese days. Never mind. I will read the records for you and inscribe an English translation — ”

"But that would take you weeks, months, perhaps,” I objected.

"When time hangs heavy on an old man’s hands he does not count the minutes, my son,” he assured me with a smile. "You have been most generous to me” — he tapped the tall red cannister of tobacco affectionately. "Cannot I do you some small favor in return?”

HETHER Brother Ambrose had done me a favor was a moot point I thought as I looked at the great sheaf of manuscript the lay brother had brought me. Ambrose was a scholar with the Teuton’s love of detail. He had made a literal translation of the records of the Hohenneitschiitz, and though it was informative to read their armory contained sallets — which, I gleaned, were a form of helmet something like our own tin hats — for a thousand men, five hundred arcubalists and enough arrows to supply them for a month-long seige, it was certainly not helpful in determining the reason for the family curse. Also, though he had written English in a lovely, clerkly hand which v/as almost wholly undecipherable, he had been thinking in German, with the result that his nouns and pronouns bunched at the beginning of his sentences, the adjectives were strung along the middle, and the verbs packed in close order at the end.

It was a long time before I came to the meat of it, but when I’d winnowed out the chaff of cluttering data I was in possession of a story as poetical as that of Faust or Tannhaiiser and as tragically appealing as the song of Tristam and Isolde or Troilus and Cressida.

The Roman Empire of the East and the proud Hohenneitschiitz family found oblivion the same year, it appeared, for it was on a lovely April evening in the year of Our Lord 1453 that the young Graf Gustav von Hohenneitschiitz und von Ketlar rode the w’hite horse he had jestingly named Weiss Tod — Pale Death — through the lush alleys of the wide greenwood that rimmed his father’s castle round on every side.

It was the season which the Germans cal! vorf ruling — the forespring — the spring-before-the-spring — and the newly budded ' trees were bright with shining green leaves or frothy with a snow of blossoms. A soft breeze played among the branches and the black soil had a sweet, warm smell. In the meadows calves and lambs skipped playfully, the birds were carrolling as they sought straws and twigs to build their nests, and Gustav, being young and heart-whole and romantic, felt the urge for song well in his throat resistlessly as the sap forcing its way through the tree trunks.

"The minstrels sing of a jovial king;

A wonderful king was he—’’



he raised his voice in the old lied, then broke the song abruptly as he reined Pale Death back almost on his haunches. Unmindful of the charger’s hoofs a flock of geese had debouched into the wood path, waddling majestically in long single file, pausing now and then to stretch their serpentine necks down to nibble at a sprig of new, fresh grass, then taking up their march again with slow, unhurried rhythm.

"Herr Gott,” the young kniglit swore, “is my road to be blocked by these confounded, squawking — ah, mddchen, I am sorry if I startled you!”

Shepherding her toddling charges with a long thin wand of peeled willow, came the goose-girl, and at sight of her young Gustav’s annoyed frown gave way to a -quick smile.

She was a pretty thing, this peasant girl, straight and slender as a reed beside the river’s rim, yet with a sweetly rounded figure whose desirability not even the almost shapeless smock she wore could quite conceal. Her hair was dark brown, clustering round her white brow in a coronel of loose curls like the tendrils of new grape vines, then sweeping down each side her face and cataracting over her shoulders until it nearly reached her waist. Her skin was very white and smooth, her lips as red as the rose Gabriel brought Our Lady. Her eyes were dark blue, blue as distant hills before rain, blue as midnight skies in winter. Round her head, as it had been a crown, she wore a chaplet of wild flowers, her one-piece smock of coarse blue linen was bound in at her small waist by a rough cord of plaited hemp. Her arms and feet were bare, but as he looked down he thought that he never had seen such white, slim, shapely feet; her insteps were two lines of arching loveliness, her ankles were as sharply cut as those of a blood-mare, her heels were narrow and the long, straight toes that never had been cramped by rigid shoes were like the fingers of a

high-born lady’s hands. Certes, this were loveliness enough for anyone upon a soft spring evening.

The dark blue eyes moved up to his, demurely bright. "I am not feared, my lord,” she told him softly, "only startled at thy advent. I had not thought there was another in the griinwald at this hour of this day, for the sun is sinleing quickly, and with darkness comes those whom good Christians should not see — ”

“Do they, i’ faith?” he answered laughing. “And who might they be, pretty one?”

"Hast thou forgotten this is May Eve, Herr? It is the feast of Saint Walpurga, and tonight is Walpurgis-Nacht when the olden gods who were but devils and the witches who adore them gather for their unclean rites in secret places — ”

His laughter cut her sober warning short. "Well spoken, madchen! There be trolls and devils and all sorts of wicked beings in the wood this night, and here is he who will defend thee from them all. ’Fore God, I’ll bring thee to thy father’s cot unharmed, though twenty times ten thousand witches barred our way!”

She signed herself vrith the cross as he spoke and turned serious eyes on him reprovingly. “It is not well to speak thus lightly of the hosts of evil, good my lord. Thy challenge might be heard — ”

He had dismounted from Pale Death, and now he bent and took one of her slim feet in his hand. "Up with thee, pretty one,” he made, and raised her to the saddle. "Thou shalt ride like any princess to thy home, and I shall be thy courier and knight-defender.

Well-favored as the maiden was her escort matched her beauty. He was well made, though somewhat inclined to the lankiness of youth, with long fair hair and apple-cheeks and wide blue eyes that verged on gray. If his chin receded somewhat, the small beard of flaxen hair obTHERE ARE SUCH THINGS


scured the failing, and he walked with the slight swagger that denoted all his kind and kin, for he was of the herzogs, noblest blood of the empire, and answerable to no one but the church, the kaiser and his father for his actions.

His apparel matched her person: a shirt of fine white linen, hose of brown silk, high boots of Spanish leather, and a doublet of brown satin slashed with gold and laced with gold-tipped points. A closelyfitting silk cap with an eagle’s feather in its crown topped his fair hair, from his shoulders hung a heel-length cloak of bright red velvet fastened with a golden clasp at the throat.

"How art thou called?” he asked as he paced by her side, one hand upon the saddle-bow, the other steadying her in her seat. “Methinlcs ’twould take a name of wondrous sweetness to do justice to thy beauty, little forest-girl.”

"My name is Else, an’ it please your lordship,” she responded softly. There was no need to ask if she had any otiier, for he knew well she did not. Peasants, like the beasts they drove to labor in the fields, had no family designations, nor would they for some centuries to come.

"It pleases me most excellently well,” he assured her. "Knowest thou who I am?”

"Yea, thou art the young Graf Gustav who one day will be our lord and master,” she replied, and a slow flush mounted to her cheeks and brow.

"One day, quotha? Am I not thy lord and master now, madchen?”

She blushed still more violently, and he had to strain his ears to catch her whispered answer. "Aye, lord, as God is to thee so art thou to poor Else.”

"Well spoken. And thou wilt obey me in all things, as becomes a peasant maiden when her lord commands?”

"Thou knowest it — ■”

"Then I command thee, as my serf and

thing and chattel, to embrace me straightway, fairest Else.”

She put her hands upon his shoulders and leant downward till her lips touched his. The fragrance of her hair swirled round him, her arms clasped round his neck, he felt the quickening of her breath against his mouth — "Bet Gott” he muttered in a voice gone suddenly as hard and sharp as honed steel, "thou art the loveliest thing in all the world, my Else,” and swung her down from the saddle.

The chronicle does not record their idyl, but it is not hard to picture it. There were other meetings in the gruntvald when the moonstained trees and shmbbery stood about them like a sentinel host, meetings when he held her close against his heart and they rehearsed the aching sweetness of their first kiss. The owl and the fledermaus — the little, harmless cheeping bat — heard their love vows, the stoat and weasel and the little timid rabbits that made nests deep in the wildwood watched them from the covert of the flowering thorn bush. Ich liebe dich — I love thee, little Else of the greenwood,” he told her not once but ahundred times each night, and she, struck speechless by his condescension — breathless with adoration as the daughters of men when the sons of God first looked on them and found them fair — could not say anything at all. But her sweet bare arms showed whiter than the apple blossoms drifting from the forming fruit as they crept tightening round his neck and drew him to the yielding sweetness of her lips, the tender warmth and pulsing of her bosom.

We know the Junker Gustav’s breed, its stiff-necked arrogancy, its pride of blood and family, its blind worship of caste. But she was a woman, sweet and young and lovely as a half-blown rose. He was a man, young, impetuous and sanguine. What else could matter in the softness of

no


the scented woodland summer night? His heart, his blood, his youth were in league to defeat his pride. So, almost but not quite inexplicably, we find them standing hand in hand upon the packed-earth floor of the hut where a peasant village priest had his rectory while they repeated after the brown-cassocked religious the sacramental words that made their twain one flesh.

The days sped swiftly as a weaver’s shuttle, and with the coming of high summer Gustav’s ardor seemed to cool. The meetings by the rowan tree were less and less frequent, when she came running forth from the shadow, hands lifted toward him, he was slower in dismounting from Pale

Death.

One July night when the moon was ■ awash in a sky tremulous with silver clouds he lay with his head couched in her lap while she let down the waterfall of her hair above his face and brushed the silken ends of the unraveled strands against his lips and cheeks. "And thou wilt surely take me to the castle and acknowledge me as thy true wedded spouse eftsoons?” she whispered, bending till he felt the flutter of her breath like moth-wings on his mouth.

"Have I not said it, little bride of my heart? There are grave reasons for my tarrying, my father’s consent to our nuptials must be first obtained, for I am not of lawful age as yet,” he answered somewhat petulantly. "Why plaguest thou me thus?”

"Oh lord and master of my heart and life and soul, believe me it is not for myself alone that I ask,” she replied, and her voice sank till he rather felt than heard the words. “Thy condescending love is all that thy poor Else asks. To meet thee thus beneath the greenwood tree, to feel thy arms about me and thy kisses on my lips, ach, Gott, it is such heaven as I had not thought existed, but”- — ^pride made her words shine like new-minted silver — -"there is another

with us now, my lord. We are not alone in the forest.”

"Herr Je, how meanest thou?” he asked in mock-fear. “Dost mean the fairy-folk — ”

"Nay, silly one!” her laughter rippled like the running of clear water over stones. " ’Tis here — ” She took his hand and laid it just below the gently-swelling rondure of her bosom. " ’Tis of thee, my Gustav, and of me. And, oh my lord, when first I knew it I felt as the ever-blessed beilige Maria must have when the Angel of the Lord appeared to her — ” sublimity of prideful joy rendered her inarticulate, but he could feel the quickened pulsing of her heart in the hands pressing his.

Slowly he rose to his knees, then to his feet. His hands felt cold, and the hollows of his shoulders ached suddenly with a fine pain. Each word she’d spoken ate its way into his brain as if etched by strong acid.

To make love to a pretty peasant maiden in the moonlit forest while the little cheeping insects hymned their lyric canticles and the wind crooned a soothing song among the branches of the rowan tree, even to go through the form of marriage before an obscure priest who knew neither him nor her — that was one thing. ' But to stand before his cold-eyed, sneering friends and own this peasant woman as his wife, to tell his race-proud sire that he was wedded to a serf, the father of a villein wench’s child — his heart gave a cold, nauseating lurch inside his breast. "Auj weidersehen, liebchen," he faltered as he climbed into the saddle. "I — I must away to the castle — my august sire — ” His farewell faded to an echo broken by the clacking of his horse’s hoofs against the flints of the roadway. And so Gustav von Hohenneitschiitz und von Ketlar rode out of little Else’s life — but she had not gone out of his.

SHE could not understand. Night after night she went to the trysting place by the rowan tree and waited while the stars

TPiERE ARE SUCH THINGS


came out and the moon swam across the sky, telling and retelling her rosary of deferred hope — "He will come; oh, surely, any moment he will come!” — until the eastern sky grew bright and the sun rose amid a tossing surf of ruddy clouds.

At last her desperation made her bold and, greatly daring, she trudged up the long road to the castle. She knew the risk she took in doing this, for though the stiffnecked townsmen had begun to curb the nobles in their arrogance the peasant still had no rights of property or person which the lord or his underlings were bound to respect.

A bugle-horn was sounding as she neared the moat and a troop of cavaliers and ladies clattered through the gateway and across the drawbridge. First came the fauconiers, the men who trained and groomed the falcons, brave in livery of Lincoln green and gold and riding on small shaggy horses, then, two by two upon their blooded mounts, the gentle folk, each with a hooded hawk perched on his gauntleted left wrist.

Her breath quickened with sudden joy, for in the foremost rank she glimpsed a tall white horse — Pale Death — and striding him in green doublet and russet cloak was Gustav.

Beside him, laughing at some jest he made, a lady rode upon a delicately-pacing palfrey. Tall, elegantly slender, whiteskinned, black of hair and black of eye she was, with thin red lips that made her white teeth even whiter as she shrilled to sudden tinkling laughter at her partner’s sally. "Well spoken, kinsman, thou must come to court, they would appreciate thy wit there,” Else heard her say as they swept past her at a brisk canter.

Pale Death gave her a whinnying greeting and would have turned his soft nose toward her, for she had often fed him tender grasses while he stamped impatiently beneath the rowan tree, but his rider

jerked the bridle sharply, dragging him away as he struck spurs into his flanks.

"Gustav, my lord,” the girl raised empty, pleading hands, "thou comest not — ” Her voice snapped like a broken thread, for the young man glanced down at her with a look void of recognition as if she had been a roadside bush or boulder.

"Who was the lady riding with the Junker Gustav?” she asked the guardsman lolling on his pike beside the drawbridge.

"It is the Graafin Elnora von Hernsdorf,” the man-at-arms replied negligently. "She is the Junker’s cousin and bethrothed. They wed at Michaelmas — ”

Three men-at-arms came grinning from the guardroom. They were off duty, and the summer day was young. The pretty chit might prove amusing, though she were as mad as any hare in March.

Else realized her peril. Once they had her inside the castle — Like a doe pursued by greyhounds she fled headlong down the path, the guardsmen’s raucous laughter following her like hurled missiles. ”Ach Gott," she moaned when she had reached the sanctuary of the forest and regained her breath a little, "he passed me by unheeding as if I had been a stock or stone, his horse knew me, but he — ”

A single scarlet word burned in her brain; Witchcraft! Her lord and husband was bewitched. Nothing but an evil spell could make him renounce his pledged word, only witchcraft could have wiped the memory of her kisses from his heart. She must fight fire with fire, she must find a wise woman who could lift the spell from her adored and make him own her as his lawful spouse before the world.

TT WAS Lammas Night, the first night in August, the Feast of Saint Peter’s Chains, when witches and warlocks and all the host of those who forswore God and served Beelzebub were gathering for their unclean worship. The sun had gone down



in a riot of wrathful color and dusk had fallen early. The sky was sullen with the weight of rain that would not fall, and from every hilltop blazed the guardian fires the peasants lighted to keep off the witch-brood. Else had been wandering through the forest since the first long shadows had begun to dull the outlines of the trees. Somewhere, she knew, a witches’ coven would be meeting, somewhere thirteen lost souls would be giving adoration to the Evil One; she must find them and secure their help. A dozen times she’d thought she heard the shirking of the witches as they cleft the air on flying broomsticks, but each time it had proved a flight of water-fowl flying homeward from their feeding-grounds. Once or twice she -thought she heard a witch-hag running through the woods, but when she followed she had found it a red deer or spotted buck that hurried down a by-path of the forest.

At last, footsore and weary, she had sunk to rest beneath the rowan tree where she and Gustav had met in the happy time before he was enchanted. "Oh, good, kind Herr Teufel, regard me if it pleaseth thee,” she prayed with all the simple trustfulness she would have used in offering a petition to Saint Anne. "I am very tired and most miserable. My wedded husband is spellbound, and I would have one of thy people lift the spell from him. Lead me to their congregating-place, good Devil, and I shall thank thee very much. Amen.”

Like an echo to her closing words she heard a muted drumming, a hurrying, insistent rhythm that beckoned her like a bent finger. She knew the place from which the sound came — the fairy-ring that stood deep in the forest. A dozen times she’d crossed it with half-bated breath, for it was said to be a meeting-place of witches, yet never till that moment had she thought to look there. She ran half stumbling down the trodden woodland path, crashed

through the wall of flowering briars that cut her feet and legs until the red blood spurted from them, and came at last with fluttering heart and wide eyes to the border of the clearing.

Upon a flat stone ini the center sat a creature robed in red and masked with leather. Deer’s antlers crowned his head, and from the falseface that obscured his features swept a long blue beard. One hand was hidden in his scarlet robe, in the other he held a thick club with which he drummed upon the stone, and round him danced a ghastly crew of thirteen forms, half-animal, half-human, wholly evil.

She saw that they had human legs, thin, knob-kneed, spindle-shanked, but from the thighs up they were clad in goatskin, topped with the beasts’ heads, haired and horned. In their furred hands each bore black candles which gave a little light but more smoke, and a sharp, unpleasant smell. Round and round the throne they jumped and capered, leaped and danced with squeaking, shrilling cries that made her think of rats caught in a trap.

Scarce daring to draw breath she looked at them with wide-set, staring eyes. She knew now that she could not do it, she dared not! These were votaries of Lucifer the accursed, to speak with them, or even stay to witness their abominations would be —

With a sudden squeaking cry one of the demons darted from the ring, leaped straight at her and seized her by the wrists. Before she realized her plight she had been dragged into the center of the circle with the witches chattering round her, thrusting at her with their flaming candles, threatening her with claw-hooked hands.

"What dost thou at our secret session, maiden?” The seated figure’s voice was deep and rumbling, but not angry.

"May it please your worship, good Herr Devil, I was not spying on you,” she mustered courage to reply. "I did but seek



for a wise woman who could lift a spell from one I love — ”

"What wilt thou pay for such a service?” broke in the masked master of the coven.

"Pay?” she faltered, taken utterly aback. In all her life she had not touched a piece of money; except for the blue linen smock she stood in she had nothing she could call her own. "What can one who has nothing pay, Meinherr?” she asked simply.

He laughed, a booming, mmbling laugh which somehow had no mirth in it. "Wilt promise to give anything we ask, no matter what, if we perform this service for thee?” he demanded.

"Yea, good Herr Devil, anything that’s mine to give I’ll give thee freely, if thou wilt do this for me,” she promised.

" ’Tis well, tomorrow morning go to Margaretta’s hut hard by the water-ford, and do v/hat she commands thee. Speak not to any of thy visit here tonight, or we shall wreak such vengeance on thee that in years to come thy story shall be used to frighten children from their naughtiness.” He waved his hand in dismissal, and her captors led her to the margin of the clearing and thrust her out into the briar-patch, where the sharp thorns tore her tender skin until her feet and legs were criss-crossed with bright bloody weals.

OLD Margaretta’s hut was dark and dirty and overflowing with the odor of evil. A stuffed and much moth-eaten owl graced the shelf above its fireplace, a black cat with a single eye arched its back and spat at Else as she paused trembling on the threshold of the witch’s house.

The mistress of the place was suited to her surroundings. She was clothed in evilsmelling rags no one of which matched any other in weave or color, around her neck was strung a chain of tarnished metal plates, brass rings gleamed dully in her ears and on each finger of her gnarled and

dirty hands. As far as Else could discern she had but four teeth, none of which met, and she had been chewing some dark aromatic herb so that the odor of it almost stopped the girl’s breath, and discolored spittle ran down from the corners of her withered mouth and made twin lines across her bristly chin.

"Come in, my dear, come in!” she bade in a cracked, cackling voice. "Hast come to pay thy call on Mother Marg; good, kind old Mother Marg?” The laugh accompanying her words was anything but good and kind, and Else would have turned and fled had not the old hag grasped her by the wrist with such a grip that she was almost fainting from the pain when finally she sank down on a stool before the empty fireplace.

"And what can Mother Marg do for thee, my sweet pigeon?” asked the crone when Else, after two attempts, found that she could not speak for very fear and loathing of her hostess.

Now her words v/ere loosed, and tearfully she told how she had met Gustav Walpurgis Night, how they had loved and wed, how he had passed her by unseeing and how he purposed to be false to his vows and take his cousin Elnora to wife.

The old hag listened, nodding understandingly. At last, when Else had completed her recital: "It is his father, the graf, who has made him thus, my child,” she announced. "He has cast a spell upon his son and wiped all recollection of his marriage from his mind—”

"The Graf von Hohenneitschiitz a warlock?” Else asked incredulously. "One so noble, one so high — ”

"Eh, eh, thou’d be surprised at those who worship at the witch’s altar, and at the things the noble Graf von Hohenneitschiitz knows,” the beldame answered with another cackle.

Which was quite true, for nearly every noble in the empire those days had his favo114


rite sorcerer or witch, and as for Johann Hohenneitschiitz — the old witch Margaretta had once been young and pretty, and he had met her in the grunwald, wooed, w'on and left her empty-hearted. Like father like son, the hag reflected as she nodded at her tearful visitor. He had taken ail and given nothing. Now to strike him through his son, his dearest treasure — “Hast anything of thy true love’s?” she asked abruptly. "A lock of his sweet hair, belike, or the handkerchief with which he wiped his dainty face — ”

“Thou’it — thou’lt give it back to me?” asked Else tremulously as she reached into her bosom and drew out the linen sack in which she kept a ringlet clipped from Gustav’s hair.

"Of course, I will, thou silly little fool!” the hag replied as she snatched at the treasure. "I do but want it that I may attune my spell to him. When I am done thou’rt welcome to it. Now begone, and come not here again until I send for thee!”

That night old Margaretta made magic. Out of candle wax filched from the parish church when none was looking she made a poppet, a doll with features strangely like the features of the Junker Gustav Hohenneitschiitz, and with cloth chopped from her rag dress she clothed it in doublet and hose and painted blue eyes in its face and red lips on its mouth. Finally, upon its head she set the lock of Gustav’s hair and combed and curled it till it fell in clustering ringlets round the neck.

This done, she laid the image on her clean-swept hearth and knelt beside it while she said six Parternosters backward and summoned her familiars:

Black spirits, white spirits.

Spirits brown and gray.

Hear me, heed me, give me what I pray: May this wax be as his heart,

May he feel my baneful dart,

May his flesh and spirit part At thy dread command!

She drew blood from her wrist and made a ruddy circle round the supine image, then, with a smile so' terrible it would have frightened Satan, drove a long pin slowly through the waxen figure’s middle. "As this poppet wounds, so may you be wounded, Gustav Hohenneitschiitz; as this wastes away, so may your bones and blood and body waste away to nothingness; may you suffer torments never-ceasing till you wait for death as the bridegroom v/aits the coming of the bride.”

Slowly, very slowly, with the science of a surgeon and the neat precision of a torturer, she thrust the cruel pin deeper and more deeply in the yielding wax.

And, recites the chronicle, it was at that precise moment that Johann Georg Ulric Mathias von Hohenneitschiitz und von Ketlarxlapped both hands to his right side and fell face-forward to the floor in a groaning-fit. Leeches came post-haste, but though they rubbed him with a salve made from the fat of weasels mixed with badgers’ blood and dosed him liberally with the ashes of burned toads mixed in white wine with moss scraped from a murderer’s skull his pains increased, so that the doctors were dismissed and an exorcist sent for. Even this proved unavailing. The patient lapsed into a coma on the second day, and never regained consciousness.

The cry of Tzitchcraft was raised forthwith, and the officers of justice went from house to house, arresting all who could by any chance be deemed in league with Satan, old Margaretta among them.'

Her case was hopeless from the start. The one-eyed black cat, the stuffed owl, the waxen image with the bodkin thmst into its midriff would have been evidence enough to send her to the stake on charges of black sorcery even if she had not made a full confession of her sins.

Of course, she did not damn herself without persuasion. The thumbscrews proved inadequate, for she was very strong.


and very stubborn, but when her legs and arms had been disjointed by the rack, her feet crushed in the boot and hot lead poured upon her naked belly she broke dovm and confessed fully, naming all her witch-companions in the cavern and saying she had worked her mischief on the graf at the behest of Else the goose-girl.

Else lay upon a straw-stuffed mattress, and though it was an afternoon in torrid August and the logs heaped in the wide-mouthed fireplace before which she lay flamed with almost blistering heat, she shivered as if she had been exposed to a December blast. Three men looked down on her as she lay there, three learned doctors of the law, two in the black stuff gowns with fur hoods marking them as civil justices, the third in the black cassock and white scapular of an ecclesiastic. "This is thy full and free confession, woman, made without fear and with no hope of favor?” asked the chief magistrate.

"Yea, good, my lord, the words are mine,” she whimpered.

"Is gut. Subscribe it.” He tendered her a quill pen dipped in ink.

"I cannot, Exzellenz; I have no schooling—”

"Jdwohl," the judge spread the parchment upon a table and wrote her name in a fair hand. "Make thou a cross mark here” — he pointed to a spot above the signature — "we will bear witness to thy mark.”

Slowly, painfully, she drew the pen across the cracking parchment in a wavering X. Her hands were bandaged, and as she moved them a drop or two of blood oozed from the linen bands and fell upon the document. The justice nodded to the leather-aproned executioner who stood in readiness and at the signal dropped upon his knees beside the girl and held a bowl of meat soup with an egg in it to her lips. "Drink, madchen,” he whispered, " ’twill give thee strength.”

IN

The judges put their heads together, reading through the statement she had signed. They made little deprecating noises with their tongues against their teeth as they perused the document, for in it she admitted that she was a witch and the consort of witches; that she had enchanted the Junker Gustav by devilish arts; that her story of their marriage was a monstruous lie; that she, in concert with the self-accused witch Margaretta, had connived by prayers and supplications to the Evil One to bring about the death of Johann Georg Ulric Mathias von Hohenneitschutz und von Ketlar.

When they had first arrested her she told her story with an artless fearlessness. Gustav was her lord and adored husband, they had been wed according to the rites of Holy Church, she loved him better than her life and only sought old Margaretta’s help because she thought he was bewitched. No, she knew nothing of the witch’s spells and magic. What should she, a Christian, know of such things?

They set her hands in the thumbscrews.

"Thou didst bewitch the Junker Gustav by thy wicked arts — thy story of thy marriage to him is a monstrous lie, is’t not?”

"Nay, lords, it is the very Gospel truth. We loved each other from the moment that our eyes first met. He wed me out of love and nothing else, for I had nothing I could bring him as a dowry save my love and devotion — ”

The judge signed to the executioner, who tightened the thumbkin, and she shrieked and writhed and tried to draw away.

"This story of thy marriage is a wanton’s lie, is’t not?”

"Nay, Exzellenz, it is the truth — O gracious heaven, mercy! Mercy on me, my lords!” as the thumbscrews bit with sudden crushing pressure on her hands again.

Little Else was not made of Spartan



stuff. Old Margaretta stood the torment for a day and night, and even then the rack and bcvot and molten lead were necessary. Less than an hour’s screwing in the thumbkins dragged from Else sobbing assents to their accusations. So, at last, we find her signing a confession in which she admits crimes she never heard or knew of till the magistrates informed her she was guilty of them.

TT WAS a pompous, aw'e-inspiring scene when they brought her before the court to hear her doom. The judges in their robes of office sat at a long table of agedarkened oak raised three steps from the courtroom floor. Behind them and before the doors and windows stood the halberdiers in leather jerkins and steel helmets, sunlight glinting on the polished heads of their weapons. The Emperor’s justicer — the executioner — stood by the steps that led up to the judges’ table, and he was in full regalia, habited in red from neck to heels, coiffed and masked in red, and holding on his shoulder his great axe with its red handle and red blade, the gleaming white of whose edge never had been wet save with the blood of men and women.

A crowd of boors had gathered in the hall of jutsice, and at sight of Else they broke into a murmurous outcry, but the clamor of the halberd butts on the stone floor brought instant silence, for the halberdiers were not slow to rap for order on the heads of the rabble if their first admonition went unheeded.

She halted before the long table, and the president of the court rose facing her, a parchment scroll in his hands. Before him on the table lay a light wand of dried willow, and her face went paler at the sight, for well she knew what it portended.

A pause ensued which seemed as long to her as an eternity, then she heard her

sentence pronounced: That the self-confessed witch and murderess be dragged by the hair of her head to the gallows in the public square and there be flogged with knotted ropes until she die, and afterward that her body be burned to ashes.”

As he finished the judge took up the T^rillow wand and beckoned to someone waiting in the shadow of the arras. Dressed all in black, with falls of white lace at his throat and wrists, the Junker — ^now the Count — Gustav, Hohenneitschiitz stepped up to the bench, took the light stick from the judge and crossed the little space that separated him from Else. She raised her bandaged hands imploringly to him. “Gustav — husband, lord — adored lover — ”

He looked full in her tear-brimmed loving eyes and nothing moved in his face. It was as if he looked at a stone thing that h.ad no power to look back. Holding the wand by each end he raised it over her head, snapped it in two and flung the pieces on the floor at her feet. This was to signify that as the wood was broken in two parts so should her soul and body be severed in the furtherance of justice. As Count of the Mark Gustav had the right to perform this ceremony, for Else had been his serf, and he was giving her up to the Kaiser for exeaition.

He turned upon his heel, but as he moved away she pointed at him with one maimed hand and spoke the first unkind words she had ever uttered in her sixteen years of life:

"False! False to thy pledged word and plighted troth art thou, Gustav von Hohenneitschiitz. Flogged I may be till I die, but I shall last to scourge thee for thy perfidy, and never shalt thou call another wife — ” Then the jeering of the rabble drowned her words and she was led back to her cell to wait the morning and her death.

Despite the sentence passed upon her,



it seems she did not suffer greatly. More merciful than judge or priest or husband, the executioner, whose business was to kill and torture, struck her on the head with a club ere he dragged her to the gallows, so what hung swinging by bound wrists beneath the flailing of the floggingropes was nothing but a corpse.

rpHE bride and bridegroom stood before the altar, and Brother Josef waited to unite them. Young Count Gustav was smiling as he took his cousin’s slim white hand in his. All was well, exceedingly well, with him. His father, for whom he had never had much real affection, was dead and one might hope well on his way to heaven by this time; he was about to wed the Grafin Elnora von Hernsdorf, one of the richest heiresses in all the Rhineland, and an orphan with no brothers or sisters. He had escaped the toils of a romantic mistake. Else — and the child — ^were ashes now.

All that stood in his way had been burned with them. The past was really nothing to him. He could just open his hands and let it slip away. He was striding ahead into the future —

The priest’s low, droning admonition broke through his pleasant musings; " — if any man can show just cause why these two should not be wedded — ” What was the matter with good Brother Josef.^ His face was drawn, his eyes were staring, there was a horrid moisture on his brow.

He looked from the priest to his bride. She was staring past him, face frightfrozen, lurking terror wakening to life in her wide eyes. Herr Gott, was everybody gone stark, staring mad? He swung about to see what they looked at.

Stark panic clutched him by the throat; terror hammered at his will, for, near enough to touch him. Else stood at his elbow, bandaged hands held out imploringly, as she had held them out to him

before he broke the wand of doom above her head.

There was no anger in her glance, but oh! her lovely eyes were tragic in her white, set face. Hope was dead and sorrow mourned in them.

"Mein Gott, Du — thou?” he gasped. "Back from the grave — ^the fire — to haunt me with — ” • The broken words died on his lips, for she had taken the hemp girdle from her waist and swimg it like a lash against his face.

He felt the stinging bite of it, but greater than the pain the horror of it struck him, overwhelm.ed him. "I shall last to scourge thee for thy perfidy,” she’d said, and now — O, gracious heaven! — ^she was doing it.

He staggered from the altar steps, ran stumbling toward the chapel door— ah, but he could not run! His feet seemed cased in leaden boots, he could not make them do his bidding. Slowly, like a man who wades breast-high in water, he moved toward the doorway, and step by step the spectral shape kept pace with him, lashing, beating, scourging —

He woke at last as from a nightmare. He was in bed and Brother Josef was attending him. Elnora? She had left the castle, gone back to her home, they told him.

Elad he been ill? Yes, very ill, and he was still too weak to rise. He must rest quietly — "Father,” he asked feebly of the priest, "is there forgiveness for me?”

"Was sagst Du, mein sohn — what hast thou done?”

"She — it was true, Father. Else did not lie when she declared I was her wedded husband. I married her and then repented of my bargain. I thought that I could face her down — v^^ho would believe a peasant woman’s word — ” Half sobbing, half raving in delirium, he told the sordid story of their pitiful, brief romance while the little priest stood by with horror



mounting in his eyes. At last: "Can I find absolution, Father?” he besought.

"I — I do not know, my son. The girl was condemned for a witch and murderess, and though she pleaded for the last rites of the church they were denied her. She died unshriven. It may be that they fate is linked with hers throughout eternity, that not until she finds release canst thou look for redemption.”

Gustav groaned and turned his face to the wall. He did not answer when the priest spoke to him. Later, when they came to rouse him to take nourishment, they found that he was dead.

He must have been a man of parts, this Brother Josef. Certainly he was a skilled sculptor, as the Calvary he carved and set up at the crossroads testifies. It was he who carved the legend "Pray for Them” upon the shrine, thinking in the simple goodness of his heart that those who knelt and said a prayer by it might offer a petition not alone for Gustav, but for the wife he had renounced and betrayed to her death. And on the tomb where they laid Gustav with the pomp and circumstances befitting his high rank good Brother Josef carved a goose to nestle at the dead knight’s feet. He could not put an effigy of Else on her husband’s sepulchre, but — she had been a goose-girl — let the symbol stand for her.

ROTHER AMBROSE had attached a letter to the manuscript:

My very good, kind friend: From what you told me you had witnessed, and what we learn from reading these accounts of the old days, it seems that Gustav Hohenneitschiitz is earthbound and doomed to suffer flagellation every

Saint John’s Eve until the wife whom he renounced and sent to cruel death finds peace within the quiet of the grave. They would not let her be absolved before she died, but she had the desire and intention. Tomorrow I shall exorcize the Hohenneitschiitz chapel, and grant her plenary absolution. Thereafter, every Saint John’s Eve I shall say Masses for the rest of their unquiet souls. We cannot know if this will win them rest eternal — all things are with God, my son — but we can try. Will not you come with me and help me in the rite of exorcism?

Nothing could have pleased me more, but next morning a field clerk handed me an order typed in triplicate stating that I would proceed to Saint Nazaire. There was of course, no telephone by which I could reach Brother Ambrose, nor could I stop to call on him. I sent an orderly with a note ■ — and another tin of tobacco— but could not wait for his answer.

My letters to him all came back. Perhaps they moved him to another convent, maybe the postmen didn’t try to deliver them.

Things were pretty chaotic in the last days of the Weimar Republic.

Did he bring peace and rest to those twm troubled shades, or does poor little Else still come to the Hohenneitschiitz chapel every Saint John’s Eve and lash her faithless lover through the long night from sunset to cock-crow? Does she still weep soft, compassionate tears as she lays on the scourge, and does she heal him with the kiss she gives him when they part at last, he to go back to his tomb-sleep for another year, she to go — ^who knows where?

The Ballad of Lalune

By LESLYN MACDONALD

rpHE grey worms blinked at the little green frogs,

And the pale mists rose from the age-old bogs,

Shrouding the trees in perpetual fogs,

And this is the tale of Lalune,

Lalune,

And this is the tale of Lalune.

Her white robe dragged on the dank, sour ground And the will-of-the-wisp fires circled her round,

While her hurrying feet made never a sound To tell that there passed Lalune,

Lalune,

■ To tell that there passed Lalune.

Her eyes were topaz, her hair was bronze,

Her step was light as a frightened fawn’s As she went through this place of colorless dawns.

The fair feckless lady Lalune,

Lalune,

The fair, feckless lady Lalune.

Over and over she muttered The Word,, Searching in vain for the purple bird,

And her own voice the only sound to be heard. The low, sobbing voice of Lalune,

Lalune,

The low, sobbing voice of Lalune.

Why does she seek in this place of shame. Why does she call on that blasphemous name, Why is she followed by quivering flame?

And what is the curse of Lalune,

Lalune,

And what is the curse of Lalune?

Forever she moves in this grim charmed trance Forever she seeks with her terrified glance. And forever about her these fires must dance, The ghostly, immortal Lalune,

Lalune,

The ghostly, immortal Lalune.


The Lovecraft Tradition

UGUST DERLETH and Donald Wandrei, co-discoverers of Ue Case of Charles Dexter Ward, tell here of Lovecraft’s working methods — and how they put his story together.

When I first visited Lovecraft at Providence in the summer of 1927, he showed me among other things the ms. of a long story which he had just written. This v/as "Ward.” He had spent months writing it, but he simply refused to type it over for submission to magazines. He hated to typewrite anything, even a letter. The length of that particular story made the task seem superhuman, for him. At the time I was just learning how to operate a typewriter; I therefore proposed to gain experience by practising on his story. He agreed with alacrity, and I brought the ms. back to St. Paul with me.

Then I discovered the full magnitude of what I had let myself in for. The story was written in longhand on the reverse side of letters he had received, some 130 or 140 sheets of all sizes and colors. He didn’t believe in margins or "white space.” Every sheet was crowded from top to bottom, from left edge to right, with his small, cramped handwriting. That was his original draft; you can imagine what happened when he got through revising, words and sentences crossed out or written in, whole paragraphs added, inserts put on the back of the sheet where they got tangled up ■with the letters from his correspondents, and the inserts themselves rewritten with additional paragraphs to be put in the insert which was to be put in its proper place in the story. Lovecraft’s handwriting was not easy to read under the best of circumstances; he had his own peculiarities of spelling, often used Latin and Greek phrases, and often used coined words of his own. These made the problem of deciphering his complex puzzle-pages even more difficult. All in all, working after my classes at the U., it took me four months to get through the labyrinth.

My typescript was doubtless loaded with errors. When he received it, he may have decided that it would take as much time and trouble to correct my typescript as it would to retype it. At any rate, there is no evidence that he took either step, or that he ever sent the story to any editor in any form.

After Lovecraft’s death, when we v/ere collecting all the Lovecraft stories, published and unpublished, we located "Ward” in the possession of R. H. Barlow and secured its loan. When the package came, there were the pages I had typed many years ago, but, to our consternation, only the first thirteen pages; and there was the original ms., but, to our, greater consternation, less than half of it. After much correspondence, we decided that the rest of the ms. had been lost beyond any hope of recovery. Thus it was that "The Outsider And Others” was published over a year ago without this major Lovecraft story. Recently, however, we received from the same source the remainder of the ms. which had somehow been separated and mislaid. We at once were able to verify it as the complete ms. And by this time we had a typist skilled in reading




Lovecraft’s handwriting; even so, it took another two months to prepare a fresh typescript and to proofread it minutely.

That "Ward” should be published first in YiiTEIRD TALES is natural and fitting. The great majority of Lovecraft’s tales appeared originally in ’'KTIRD TALES; and to many of us who have read the magazine since its first issue the word Lovecraft and WEIRD TALES are almost synonyms. It was chiefly through WEIRD TALES that Lovecraft won recognition as being preeminent in his field, and, by his creation of the "Cthulhu” mythology, came to exert a broad influence on other writers. "Ward” is one of the earliest stories in which he used the "Cthulhu” mythology.

After his first tales, there began to develop in his later ones a curious coherence, a myth pattern so convincing that readers began to explore libraries and museums for certain imaginary titles of Lovecraft’s own creation. Probably the best known of these imaginary titles is the Necronomkon of the mad Arab Abdul Alhazred. "Yog-Sothoth” and "Cthulhu” were two of the entities or Old Ones in his mythology which were often used by other writers. It was in "'Tlie Call of Cthulhu,” originally published in WEIRD TALES, that this Cthulhu Mythology first became fully apparent. Lovecraft himself wrote in a letter, " — all my stories, unconnected as they may be, are based on the fundamental lore or legend that this world was inhabited at one time by another race who, in practising black magic, lost their foothold and were expelled, yet live on outside ever ready to take possession of this earth again — ” In later stories in WEIRD TALES, hke "The Dunwich Horror” and "The 'Whisperer in Darkness,” he continued to develop the Cthulhu Mythology around the mysterious and terrible Old Ones who live on outside, and the secret rites and ' suppressed magic books that are the only surviving links to them.

It will indeed be a pleasure to see "The Case of Charles Dexter Ward” in print in the magazine where H. P. L. would most have wanted to see it published— thus rounding out the Lovecraft tradition and the Cthulhu Mythology.

Invitation to Future Lovecrafts

There’s a welcome on the mat here to new writers — those authors who are now completely unknown, in the weird field at any rate, but who are capable of growing into regular WT contributors.

In the past WEIRD TALES has developed unknown writers who are today the prime favorites of all fantasy and science fiction readers. To find those authors — unrecognized today, but who will grow in the same way during the years to come — ^we’d like our readers, and all writers everywhere, to know that every story is assured of the most careful and considerate reading; known and unknown authors alike are given the same attention.

If you have a v/eird tale, or an idea for one, up your sleeve, why not tell us about it? Who knows — -you may be the Lovecraft of the future!

Uplifting

Mrs. Pearl Kwookala writes from Grand River, Ohio:

I had to go to Mexico City, D. F. And on my way home I purchased WEIRD TALES. I think it is a very nice book. There are some very interesting things in it that uplifts us and our imagination from these very troublesome times. I shall do all I can to introduce your book to my friends.

Any Lovecraft Photos in Existence?

Robert Rosen writes from the Bronx, New York:

I have been a reader of WT for some seven years, and in that period I have had the pleasure of reading the superb creations of H. P. Lovecraft. His passing has left an uniiilable gap in the ranks of creative fantasy literature, and it has been my unquenchable desire to secure a photograph of this great man. If you can in any way assist me in the securing of same, I will be in your gratitude always.

If anyone happens to know of any HPL pictures — how about letting us know? We could tell readers about it in the next issue — ■ so that anyone who wanted a picture would know where to get hold of one.



Weird Tales Omnibus?

Mr. H. S. Scarritt writes from Hutton Park, West Orange, New Jersey:

I have often wondered why you have never gotten out a Weird Tales Omnibus. 1 ima^ne that you have a sufficient following to make this successful, and that by conducting a poll among your older subscribers, or perhaps a contest of some sort, you could arouse considerable interest and doubtless secure a substantial number of advance orders.

After having read the magazine for some years, there are a few stories that stand out in my mind, that I would like to have, and this must be so with many others. It would make a good gift book, for the summer vacationist, next Christmas, and so on.

What do you think of Mr. Scarritt's suggestion? The idea of such an omnibus has come up for consideration on various occasions. Why not let us have your ideas on the subject?

Weird Tales Quarterly?

And from Quincy, Mass., Harold F. Keating writes:

Thinking it over, wouldn’t it be wonderful, every three months, to find a WEIRD TALES QUARTERLY? With full page drawings by Harry Ferman, Hannes Bok, and Margaret Bnmdage. Stories by the incomparable Scabury Quinn, Edmond Hamilton, Eli Colter, Greye La Spina, Robert Bloch, Clark Ashton Smith, August W. Dcrleth, Dorothy Quick, Mary Elizabetlt Counselman, Carl Jacobi? But what a vision this is! If you could put this up to your readers, and only print the amount actually subscribed for in advance, you might be able to do it, without counting on newsstand wastage. I wonder just how many would subscribe to this idea?

Harold Keating seems to have a rather similar idea to Mr. Scarritt’s. We’d appreciate your opinions on both these suggestions.

Half Melted Music

From New York, Charles Hidley writes:

... a most intriguing simile was Brown’s in the Astrakhan Hat story describing Arabic script as half melted music... and Miss Sloan gave chilling atmosphere to her horrible cat yam— • the parting grass and glowing eyes and materializations were really scary!

Bewitched!

The author of There Are Such Things writes a sidelight on his story’s background — • the age of a "thousand years without a bath”!

IT HAS been suggested that the scene at the witch’s Lammas Night meeting and the incantation of old Mother Marg in There Are Such Things seem rather childish and slightly silly. I concur in this criticism, but like a lawyer entering a plea in confession and avoidance, defend my story by replying that (judged by modern standards) the v.’hole structure of Medieval witchcraft was silly and childish, and that the learned judges, both lay and ecclesiastical, who sent the witches to the stake or gallows were themselves more than a little ridiculous.

On the other hand it is unjust and rather silly to judge anything pertaining to the Middle Ages by comparison with modern standards. The Medieval period — placed for convenience, but not very accurately, between the fall of Rome in 476 A.D. and the discovery of America in 1492 — was an age of almost unbelievable ignorance, dirtiness and superstition, and all classes of society fairly wallowed in these undesirable qualities. Outside the churchmen and a few students at the universities hardly anyone could read, and even ability to scratch one’s name laboriously was considered a great achievement.

Philosophers were concerned with such weighty matters as "How many angels can dance at once on the point of a needle?” Earth, sky and sea were peopled with a multitude of demons and hobgoblins, and no story or "wonder” was so fantastic or obviously absurd that it did not meet with immediate and wide acceptance. Those who doubted held their peace, and wisely, for the rack and stake were waiting (thougji not patiently) for scoffing skeptics.

Contrary to general modern belief physical development was at a low ebb. Malnutrition, either from actual starvation or unbalanced diet, was the rule in all orders of society, and few modern men of even fair physique could crowd themselves into such authentic suits of


Medieval armor as have been preserved to us. Mental development was on as low a plane.

In a time when illiteraq^ was well-nigh universal, witchcraft spells, charms, invocations and evocations were of necessity transmitted by word of mouth and reduced to rhyme to aid remembering. Crude, unlettered people composed crude, inelegant ' verse, hence the crudity — or, if you prefer, the childishness and silliness — of the spells recited by the witches who were, after all, drawn from the dregs of a woefully depressed society.

The gatherings of witches (sabbats) were the recreation of child-minded people. Silly? Of course. But just as the modern lad of five or six who sticks a feather in his hair and jumps around and yells, imagines himself to be an awe-inspiring spectacle of an Indian brave performing a war dance, so did the poor, ignorant, childish peasant man and woman imagine themselves figures of terror when they changed their customary rags for a cape of goat skin and danced about the stone or stump on which their "devil” was enthroned.

They knew no language but their own, and that imperfectly. Five hundred, or even fewer, words composed an adequate vocabulary for the peasant. But when they pranced and jabbered in their "orgies” at the sabbat the homely words were insufficient for the grand occasion, so they devised a "language of hell” — a sort of double talk which was entirely meaningless, but satisfied their longing for "strange, unearthly words.”

The witches’ sabbat seems to have been a dull, childish and altogether innocent meeting. Most of the descriptions of sacreligious ceremonies were "confessed” by accused witches under torture. Knowing they could purchase surcease of their torment only by telling their accusers horrifying and fantastic stories of the doings of the coven, they drew on their imagination freely. Probably tire most inspired fiction of the age was that inspired by the rack, the strappado and the thumbscrew. For real sacrilege and the horrors of the Black Mass we have to go to the more refined and cultured period of the Renaissance or even the France of Louis XIV and Madame de Montespan, or to such outstanding nobles

A Bigger Job—

and You^re the Man

Are you hunting a bigger job, or does the bigger job hunt you? Why waste priceless years at routine work, when you can acquire at home in a comparati’vely few months the sfiecialized knowledge for which big firms pay big money? Thousands of men have greatly increased their incomes by the new home-study business training under the LaSalle Problem Method. Let us show you how you can do just as well or better. The coupon will bring you complete information, together with details of our convenient payment plan; also your free copy of a remarlcable book — “Ten Years’ Promotion in One.” Make your Start toward that bigger job today.

LASALLE EXTENSION UNIVERSITY A Correspondence Institution

Dopt. 475-R Chicago

Please send me full information regarding the course and service I have marked with an X below. Also a copy of “Tea Years’ Promotion in One,” all without obligation to me.

□ BusinessManagement:TrainingforOfiidaIManagerial, Sales and Departmental Esecutive positions.

D Modern Salesmanship: Training for position as Sales Executive. Salesman, Sales Coach or Trmner, Sales Promotion Manager, Manufacturers* Agent, Solicitor, and all positions in retail, wholesale or specialty selling.

□ Higher Accountancy: Traimng for position as Auditor, Comptroller, Certified Public Accountant, Cost Accountant, etc.

□Traffic Management: Training for poation as Railroad, Track or Industrial Traffic Manager, Rate Expert, Freight Solicitor, etc.

□ Law: LL.B. Degree,

□ Stenotypy: The up-to-date method fos secretaries and court and convention reporters,

□ Modem Foremanship: 'i^raining for positions in Shop Management, such as that of Superintendent, ^neral Foreman, Foreman, Sub-Foreman, etc.

□ Industrial Management; Training for positions in Works Management, Production Control, Industrial Engineering, etc.

□ Modern Business Corresj>ondence: Training for Sales or Collection Correspondent, Sales Promotion Manager, Mail Sales Manager, Secretary, etc.

□ Stenoi^raphy: Training in the new superior machine shorthand, Stenotypy.

□Expert Bookkeeping DEffective Speaking

□Business English DC. P. A, Coaching

□Commercial Law

Name

Present Position-

. Age-,

Address.



Earn more every day in the year repre* EcntinfT old csuiblished firm witli a complete line of fast sellinj? neocssitios: Shirts of all kinds. Ties, Underwear, Hosiery,

I Kaincoats, Sweaters, Pants. Belts, Breeches, Shoes, raiseiTiljies, Sport Coats, Uniforms, Summer Suits, etc. Every item gruaxanteecL Experience unnecessarj'.

Write quick for FREE SALES EQUIPMENT


Side Line Spore T/me — Fu/f Time BIG CASH COMMISSIONS IN ADVANCE DAILY

Complete line of EVEllYDAT BT7SINBSS KEXIESSIIIES— o?er 2,000 fast sellinji, steady repeating items for aJl retail merchants, Ras stations, business offices, etc., at a saving of more than half. You take orders. We deliver! Elaborate SAMPDE DISPLAY OUTFIT sent FREE. W'rlte quick. NORTHWESTERN, 625-BM WEST JACKSON, CHICAGO, ILL.

eerltsuep

ThisFasfWatf

•or Money Bach

For quick relief from itching of eczema, pimples, athlcte^s foot, scales, scabies, rashesand other extemallycaused skin troubles, use world-famous, cooling, antiseptic, liquid D. D. D. Prescription. Greaseless, stainless. Soothes irritation and quickly stops the most intense itching. 35c trial bottle proves it, or money back. Ask your druggist today for D. O. D. PRESCRIPTION.

Banish the craving for tobacco as thousands have. Make yourself free and happy with Tobacco Redeemer. Not asubstltute, not habit forming. Write for free booklet telling of injurious effect of tobacco and dependable. easy way to relieve the craving maio^men have.

NewellPharmacalCd.

Dept, 600, St. Louie. Mo.

FREE

BOOK


Twelve ways Professionals win with fair dice. No switching. No practice. One hundred keys and codes on twenty-four different backs. 50 cents. BEAT THE CHEAT, 28 pages of exposes, $1.00. The great OPEN BOOK, witten in words of fire. 155 pages of exposes, $3.50. Free catalofl Included.

Box 2488 SPECIALTY EXPOSE Kansas City. Ho.

ISEND NO MONEY! — Save Moaeyl

, TRANSPARENT ^ PARTIAL ■

CODays’Triall ^ ROOFLESS I

Wemake FALSE TEETH for^ou by MAIL I from yowr otvnmouth-impression. Money- " i FDPF Back Guarantee of Satisfaction. Prnf««iAmsi Free impression material.directioDS.catalosf.

Professional Model y 5 Dept. 4-13, Chicago


Books by Lovecraft, Merritt. Quinn, etc., rented by maH 3c a day plus postage. Writ© for free list. WEREWOLF LENDING LIBRARY. 227-V, So. Atlantic Avenue, Pittsburgb, Pa.

You can Siili Get These Back Numbers of WEIRD TALES!

1932 — ^February 1936 — All (Aug. -Sept, combined)

1933 — November 1937 — ^All but January

1934 — June to December 1938 to date Complete

1935 — All but January

Issues up to and including August, 1939 — 25c:

from September to date — 15c,

Be sure to place your ortler right away — stocks are going fast!

as Giiles de Rais (1440), marshal of France, who certainly rated mention in the social Blue Book of his day. The simple witches of the rural districts would have been as horrified by such goings on as were the judges.

A word about. "poppets.” Traditionally these were made from drippings or butts of blessed candles filched from the church. These were hard come by, accordingly the

poppets were of small stature. Dough could be used if wax were not available, but in an age when starvation grinned with bare-boned malice through every peasant’s window flour was not lightly to be expended, even for purposes of witchcraft.

"Sympathetic magic” — the killing or injury of an enemy in absentia, by doing violence to his image or picture is as old as man. Paleolithic man drew a crude likeness of the animal he intended hunting on his cave wall, then harangued it, telling what he was going to do. That done, he set out for the hunt serene in the belief that he would bag his game, for he had intimidated it and made it less fleet or fierce by the "magic” he had worked beforehand. The modern lover who kisses his sweetheart’s photograph is practicing a sort of sympathetic magic in reverse, so is the man who anoints his head with bear’s grease — the bear is a haixy animal, hence he who rubs its fat on his head will grow or retain a fine suit of hair.

Book's could be — and have been — ^written on the subject of Medieval witclicraft, but it all boils down to a rather silly and cliildish business, though often it lacks the sweet innocence of childhood, and there is nothing laughable in its silliness.

My job, and the job of every writer who takes himself at all seriously, is to give as faithful a presentation of the time and place of which he writes as he can; not to gloss or tint or color it, but to try to mirror it. 'That I have tried to do in There Are Such Things.

Seabury Quinn.



Write to MARTIN WARE, SECRETARY

• This is your club — a medium to help you and other fantasy and science-fiction fans get together. Readers wanted it — they wrote in telling us how much they would enjoy meeting others of similar tastes.

• Membership is very simple: just drop us a line, so that we can enroll you on the club roster, and publish your name and address in the magazine.

• A membership card carrying the above design— ^personal token of your fellowship with the weird and the fantastic — will be sent on request. (A stamped, addressed envelope should be enclosed.)

and Other Standard Makes

Onl^ our 2S years’ experience, big buying power and volume production m^e It possible to offer these amaz> Ing tire values. Think of it; Standard Brand reconditioned tires, serviceably repaired by experts with highgrade materials at a fraction of original cost. Ordernow.Enjoythe tremendous savings our cut prices make possible.

TRUCK BALLOONS Size Tires Tubes

6.00- 20 $3.10 $1.65 6.50-20 3.3S 1.95

7.00- 20 4.60 2.95 7.60-20 S.XS 8.7S ".25-20 6.75 4.96

HEAVY DUTY TIRES Tubes $1,95

6.95 2.76

84s7 8.95 S.25

SSz7 9-45 S.95

56x8 9.65 S.95

40x8 11.60 4.15


WANTED

BALLOON TIRES Size Tires Tubes 29x4.40-21 $1.85 $0.86 29x4.60-20 * 30x4.60-21 2Si4.75.19

29.X4.76-20

29x6.00-19 2.; 80x5.00-20 *

6.25-17 28x6.25-18 29x5.25-19 2.- 30x5.25-20 “ ■ 81x5.26-21 6.50-17 2.'

i;

29x6.50-19

1.16

6.00-17

»x6.00-18 2.85 1.16 LX6.00-19 2.S5 1,15 ^6.00-20 2.95 1.26 1x6.00-21 3.10 1.25:x6.60.20 3.20 1.35

TRUCK Tl

f&" i'Sflo

EVERY TtRE GUARANTEED

Oor Guarantee Bond ssrrees to replace et % price tires failing to sire fu(l9nionths’servIce. Replacements f. o. b.Cbicago.

Don't Delay— Order Today SEND ONLY $1.00 DEPOSIT on each tire ordered. ($^00 on each Truck Tire.) We ship balance C. O.D. Deduct 5 per cent if cash is sent in full with order. To fill order promptly we may substitute brands if necessary. ALL TUBES BRAND NEW—GUARANTEBD— PERRY-FIELD TIRE & RUBBER CO.

2328-30 S. Michigan Ave., Dept. 7743, Chicago

FREE


Stomach Ulcers

His Job Is Magic

JpLBASE enroll me in the WEIRD TALES CLUB. This is a most pleasant opportunity, indeed. As a professional magician I have always been interested in the weird, the occult and the unusual. During my years in magic and association with the unusual I have had quite a few somewhat weird experiences. As a student of psychology, folklore, witchcraft and allied subjects I have come to believe that not all things can be explained by the mentally lazy person’s cry of coincidence.

Eddie Clever.

New Cumberland, Pa.

A Peridromophilist

I am twenty-three years old and am a paridromophilist. That sounds as though it might be in the category of a werewolf or something, but it just means that I study street railway transportation and collect information and data concerning this industry. I never indulge in this on stormy nights, however, as they are reserved for WEIRD TALES. May the day come soon when you are again a monthly!

Charles S. Jones.

126 Argyle Road,

Ardmore, Pa.

Due to Gastric Hyperacidity

H. H. Bromley, of Shelburne, Vt., writes: “I suffered for years with acid-stomach trouble. My doctors told me I had acid stomach ulcers and would have to diet the rest of my life. Before taking your treatment I had lost a lot of weight and could eat nothing but soft foods aiid milk. After taking Von’s Tablets, I felt perfectly well, ate almost anything and gained back the weight I had lost." If you suffer from indigestion, gastritis, heartburn, bloating or any other stomach trouble due to gastric hyperacidity, you, too, should try Von's for prompt relief. Send for FREE Samples of this remarkable treatment and details of trial offer with m<mey back guarantee, Instructiye Booklet is included. Write:

BHILABEIiPHIA VON CO. Dept. 630-H

Fox Building, Fluladelpliia} Pa.

Learn at Home — Make Good Money

Get facts about job oipportunities In Rai^o and thosa coming in Television. Read how you prepare at home in spare time. Hundreds I trained have good Radio jobs or their own Radio busineeses. Many make $30, $40, $50 a week. Many malte $5 to $10 a week extra filing Radios in. spare time while learning. Mail coupon.

I'mi

MK. J. E. SmTH, President, Dept. IDM National Radio Institute, Washington. D. C.

Mail me your 64-pa2e book "Rich Rewards in Radio FREE. (No salesman will caU. Please write plainly.) ^qjj

NAMB

ADDRESS

city... STATE

I gi




The Moon Terror

By A. G. BIRCH


by A. G. BIRCH

Is a stupendous weird-scientific novel of Oriental intrigue to gain control of the world.


In addition to the full-length novel, this book also contains three shorter stories by well-known authors of thrilling weird-scientific fiction:

OOZE

by Anthony M. Rud

Tells of a biologist who removed the grovvth limitations from an amoeba, and the amazing catastrophe that ensued.

PENELOPE

by Vincent Starrett

Is a fascinating tale of the star Penelope, and the fantastic thing that happened when the star was in perihelion.

AN ADVENTURE IN THE FOURTH DIMENSION by Farnsworth Wright

Is an uproarious skit on the fourdimensional theories of the mathematicians and inter-planetary stories in general.


Make sure of getting your copy now before the close-out supply is exhausted. Send your order today for this book at the special bargain price of only 50 cents.

NOTE: This book for sale from the publishers only. It cannot be purchased in any book store.

WEIRO TALES, Book Dept.,

9 Rockefeller Plasa, New York, N. Y., U. S. A.

Enclosed find 50c for cloth-bound copy of THE MOON TERKOE as per your special offer.

Name

Address

City.,. State

“The Insiders” Write

Our. last notice in WEIRD TALES about us "Insiders” (The Los Angeles Science Fantasy Society) netted us four visitors — one interesting young lady from San Francisco, as a matter of fact — but this is not enuf for our voracious appetites! We’ve had present during our near-f75 meetings celebrities you all know, such as Dr. Keller, who wrote "The Solitary Hunters,” and a dozen others; the "World-Saver” himself, Edmond Hamilton, Henry Kuttner, Hannes Bok, Arthur J. Burks, Robert Bloch, Ralph Milne Farley, Eando Binder, and others truly "too numerous to mention.” Featured have been art exhibits of original oil, pastel, water-color and pen-and-ink work by Biaindage, Bok, Ferraan, and many more. A large librarj^ cont.iining many back issues of WEIRD TALES is ax-ailable to members. A number of "fanmags” are published locally. So climb out of your coffins, guys; get the ghoul-friends; or bring the ske!cton-in-thccloset as a visitor; but come to our meetings! Held first four Thursdays every month in the Brown Room of Clifton’s Cafeteria, 648 S. Broadway, downtown Los Angeles, Calif., starting 7:30.

Sinceyriely,

Weaver Wright, Scc’y-at-Large, LASFS.

Box 6475 Met Sta.,

Los Angeles, Calif.

Weird Tales Veteran

Old-timer veteran calling from New York headquarters! Members could meet at my house, have social.gatherings, tea-leaf reading, etc.

Those in New York, New Jersey, Long Island, kindly write.

Charles L. Klein.

211 W'est 108th Street,

New York, New York.

Eerie Blaze

Have you got room in your group for a fellow fan of fantasy? If you have, I’d like to come in and warm my hands and heart at the eerie blaze.

As a journalist and newspaperman my work has taken me into many strange and weird places and created spine-tingling adventures that still send little icy fingers up my backbone. I’d like to swap weird adventures with other members, also ideas and opinions.

I’d also be tickled to death with one of Hannes Bok’s skiilfully designed membership cards.

And now back to my copy of WEIRD TALES. It’s tops on my list of magazine recreation.

Yours for more thrills and chills,

E. James Allard, Jr.

50 Cottage Street,

Laconia, New Hampshire,


THE

Travels — with W.T.

Though I have been reading WEIRD TALES since it was first published, this is my first letter to this most wonderful magazine. A sailor’s life is prosaic, the same thing day after day. With a copy of WEIRD TALES and my radio I can travel from this mundane world into the far-off realms of fancy. Although I’m only a novice in the line of deep thinking and the various arts that go to make up the study of Black Magic, I would like to learn more.

We just returned from the Far Hast. Our ship visited Manila, Shanghai and Hong Kong.

I would like to receive some letters from sailors, soldiers and marines as I am an ex-gob. They can teach me at either one of these two addresses.

W. C. Babcock.

Seamen’s Church Institute,

25 South Street, New York City.

Or

M, S. City of Dalhart,

American President Lines,

1 Broadway, New York City.

Calling Astoria!

Are there no WEIRD TALES readers in Astoria, Long Island, N. Y.?

I would enjoy to discuss unusual things and weird ideas with a science-fictionally-minded person of any age.

I also wish to join WEIRD TALES CLUB and possibly get in touch with some of WEIRD TALES readers.

Weirdly yours,

Joseph Jirinec.

22-35 Tw^ty-ninth Street Astoria, Long Island, N. Y.

♦ Clue to Truth

Since I joined your WEIRD TALES CLUB some months ago, in an earnest endeavor to contact minds who have the same serious conviction that there are certain so-called psycliic phenomena that are directly an indication of and a guide to the real truth underlying all our own lives and of ail Nature around us, I have had real reason to believe that there are some very earnest seekers and thinkers interested in your WEIRD TALES CLUB for the same reason I am, and who find in your magazine not only real recreation for their leisure hours, but a very real clue to minds that are seekers after truth like themselves. For I have made some very interesting and sincere contacts — and I am grateful to your club as the medium through which these contacts were brought about.

May you keep up your good work, and may both your work and yourself have all the benefits and blessings that the New Year may be able to bring you.

Bmbe True.

care of Wertz, 151 W. Qiff Street,

Somerville, New Jersey.

EYRIE

YOim CHOICE of Je»ele J Bgm, WjIHaml

Of Illinois wrisf wafeh. New sfyled size 0 Cass. Reconsfrucled movemcnf. Accuracy guaranteed- &!vee> with every Slmulotea Diamond ring when ordered end paid our purchase privilege plan. Paymenls: $3.50 down, within 20 days after arrival, at your post office. Balance of $3.50 anytime within a year (total only $7.00). Remember, the cost of watch Is included in price cf the ring. Ettra surprise free gift enclosed for Send NO money with order, rush name, address, ring size. It comet return mail In special gift bot, postpaid.

A. HAMILTON JEWELERS Topeka, Kan. Dept. NF*44I

Foremen f

EoereaseYofir Fayo

No matter how many years you’ve toeen on the job, you’I! find LaSalle home-study training in Modern Poremanship a real money-maker lor you. Here’s why; Hugo DIemer. Meyer Bloomfield and a number ol other experts who had won distinction in the field ol production engineering gathered, analyzed and organized lor LaSalle the experience ol more than 5,000 practical foremen and production tnen in every line of industry. Upon tills basic material they built a truly remarkable training course covering every phase of the foreman’s job. “Hare received two promotions and a ‘raise’ in salary of $76 a month” — “Have increased the production ol my department 20% “—“My moathlr salary is now $S10~a ‘raise' of S125 a month’ ’—those ore but a few of tiie zr.any tributes paid LaSalio homestady training in Modem Poremanship. Low-cost; ea^ terms. Complete details m an attractive 48-pagQDOol',“Modem Poremanship,’’ sent you free upon request. Write for it today.

LASALLE EXTENSION UNIVEi^SITY A Correspondence Institution Dept.475-MF CHICACO

CHILDLESS Wives

WHO WISH

BABIES!

Doctor’s Informatioa SENT FREE!

Conieeniin^ Mmple way Jolloweff at home hy which the female OTgaas in relievable functional sterility may bo assisted so that motherhood may then so often be easily possiblelYOUANDYOUnHUSBAND IWAYLATER THANK THE DAY YOU SENT FOR THS5 FREE INFORMATION. Women from over the Nation write ns of their Joy in becoming mothers at last! FOR FREE COPY write to Warner Co., S22 W. Lake St., Minneapolis, Minnesota.

LOW

AS

$6.85

90 DAYS’ TRIAL


We make FALSE TEETH for you by mail from your owa impressions. You have satisfaction of MONEY BACK GUAR-.,

ANTEE. Customers report satisfaction, but you be your own judCfL

- - - - - VTBITL TODAY for P'RBB

BOOKLET and MATBllIAL


CLEVELAND DENTAL SUPPLY COMPANT Oepf. 50-DI, East St. Louis. Illinois

i28


BACKACHE?

Try Flushing Excess Poisons I And Acid Thru Kidneys < And Stop Getting Up Nights

35 CENTS PROVES IT

When yonr hidneys are overtaxed and your bladder is irritated and passage scanty and often smarts and bums, you may need Gold Medal Haarlem Oil Capsules, a fine harmless stimulant and diuretic that starts to work at once and costs but 35 cents at any modern drugstore.

It’s one good safe way to put more healthy activity Into kidneys and bladder — you should sleep more soundly the whole night through. But be sure to get OOI/D iibdaIj — it’s a genuine medicine for weak kidneys. Don’t accept a substitute.

Did “Diamond Jim” Havo Siomaeii or Ulcer Pains?

It is hardly likely that Diamond Jim Brady could have eaten so voraciously if he suffered after- eating pains. Sufferers who have to pay the penalty of stomach or ulcer pains, indigestion, gas pains, heartburn, burning sensation, bloat and other conditions caused by excess acid should try a 25c box of UDGA Tablets. They must help or money refunded. At drug stores everywhere.

FALSE

lEETH

AS LOW AS $7.95

It i: \‘ 1- fe jJ Fe? Dental plates are

i* U U made in our own laboratory

I from yonr personal impresBicn. WORKMANSHIP and Material GUARANTEED or PURCHASE PRICE REFUNDED. We take this risk bn our 60-Day Trial Offer. Vln UnT Cnm Aaiv lUlAurv Mail post card for FREE material UU nui utNU ANT IflUNtT and catalog of onr low PRICES. DON'T PUT IT OFF — Write ns today!

BRIGHTCN-THCMAS CENTAL LABORATORY (INC.) DEPT. 622 6217 S. HALSTED STREET. CHICAGO, ILL.


Take prompt steps to protect your invention. Delays are dangerous. Get new FREE book, “How To Protect Tour Invention." and "Invention Record" form. Preliminary information free. Reasonable fees. Conscientious counsel. Easy payment plan. Learn how to protect ami sell your invention. Write us today. >rcMORROW & BERMAN. RegLstered Patent Attorneys, 129-E Barrister Building, Washington, D. C.


Railway Mail Clerks, Mail Carriers — Clerks, Inspectors, Investigators, etc. $1260 to $2100 first year. Write IMMEDIATEJLY for list of jo'-s and partieulara telling how to qualify for one.

FfiANKLIN INSTITUTE, Dept. P-240, ROCHESTER, N. Y.


T;u*lv Ready, 2038 SlieiReld Are., Chicago, 111.

1‘hirl H. Williams, 1512a State St., East St. Louis, 111. Kay Benton, Norwood, Ohio,

Esther Benson, Aquilla Apts., 4Sth and Sansom Sts., Philadelphia, Pa.

Valentino Richardson, 2556 Westlake, N., Seattle Wash.

“Pogo,"’ oDIC San Ffernaudo Ed., Glendale, Calif. Edith Mulder, 28 Beach St., Stapleton, S. I., N. Y. Mary Frances Flower, 522 E. St. Sparrows Point, Md. Roland L. Morris, Chaminade College,' Clayton, Mo. Vincent Sheehan, Chaminade College, Clayton, Mo. Jack Brand, Chaminade College, Clayton, Mo.

Tim Hesinessy, Chaminade, Clayton College, Mo. William Bauniman, Chaminade College, Clayton, Mo. Richard Yach, Chaminade College, Clayton, Mo. Milton Badeaux, Co. 5476, CCC, Camp Gerlach, G-86, Gerlach, Nev.

Mrs. Violet Parkell, RFD No. 3, Caoiiastota, N. Y. Albert R. Barocas, 177 Malta St., Brooklyn, N. Y. Virginia “Jim E.” Laney, 1067^/^ AV. 39th Place, Los Angeles, Calif.

Jane Marbach, 140 S. Grant St., Westmont, 111.

R. M. Braselton, P. O. Box 594, Selma, Ala.

F. J. 0>>'eii, Jr., 952 Trinity Are., New York, N. Y. James Warren Blevrins, Route 1, Rogers, Ark. Winfred Hagan, Box 564, Hurley, N. Mex.

Wni. P. Pflumm, 336 7tli Are. N., St. Petersburg, Fla. Maeye Galyean, 603-3 N. E. Hassalo St., Portland, Ore. Edward L. Gilroy, 1203 F. St., N, W., Washington, D. C.

Bill Peterson, 805% So. Yak., Tacoma, Wash. Michael Foragis, 157 Fourth St., Passaic, N. J.

A. L. SchwartK, 229 Washington St., Dorchester, Mass.

George Hulbert, 18 South Kenisco Ave., White Plains,

N. Y.

Laurence Canter, Box 51, Mingo Jet., Ohio.

Chaz X. Allen, Community Center, h^ort Wayne, Ind. Phyllis Lines, 418 Old Fort Place, Ind.

Bobby Gordon, Alexander St., Buford, Ga.

Marian Kreschman, R. No. 2, Lidgerwood, N. D. Lawrence Woods, c/o E. Balter, 0S46 Harrow St., Forest Hills, N. Y.

Arthur SchlinK, 1616 Nelson St., Chicago. 111.

P. David A. Dalie, U.S.M.C.-F'.M.F., 3rd Tank Co., Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.

Laura Greenway, Box 2.54, Red Bank, N. J.

George Ohanian, 714 Park St., Plartford, Conn.

Mrs. Clara Siegel, 17 Pitt St., New York, N. Y.

Irene Kentor,.377 IMontgomery St., Brooklyn, N. Y. Owen O’Gara, Jr., 37-27 97th St, Corona, L. I., N. Y. Russell W. Eddy, Craig Colony, Sonyea, N. Y.

Ralph I. A. Johnston. 174 Lowell St,, Lawrence, Ma.ss. Algert Stonis, 700 W. 35th St., Chicago, 111.

Casper J. Craig, Box 25, Eram, Okla.

Paul Gallagher, C. R. Division, U.S.S. Maryland, Long Beach, Calif.

Jim Jett, C, R. Division, U.S.S. Maryland, Long Beach, Calif.

Dennis J. Clark, 441 Wrightwood Ave., Chicago. 111. Walt Cash, 343S N. Greenview Avo.. Chicago, 111. Nellie Gunn, 104 4th St., Monroe, Ga.

Reba Adams, 102 Fourth St, Monroe, Ga.

Ha Gunn, 104 Fourth St., Monroe, Ga.

James C. Morgan, 230tli Sep. Co., Q.M.C., Langley Field, Va.

Frederick McGovern, P. O. Box 502, Denville, N. J. Adolf Clemens, P. O. Box 502, Denville, N. J.

Roy E. Bowman, R. No. 2, Waynesboro, Va.. Stephen J. Takaos, 30-3 Eckford St., Brooklyn, N. Y. Alfred Edw. Maxwell, 545 E. Madison St„ Opelousas, La.

Violetta Harris, Route 3, Madison, Wise.

Vilma Lee Chambless, Route 1, Box 0-K, Texarkana, Tex.

G E N u I N ^j§aeAtode£No.fS

LCSMITH

lOZ

NO EXTRA CHARGE— 14” MODELS. WHILE 43 LAST!

s».'

Spo(*ial prico. Same as iiuH'liiiie shown but equipped with 14 inch (‘arriam*. lioaiitifull v

rebuilt and

unconditional

sruarantee.

year


wee^

a


10 DAYS TRIAL Easy Terms-8c a day

iVo obligation. Seyid no money. See buy on wide-open 10 day Trial. Ihiy

before you on easiest

terms — |-only 8c a day. You get this genuine late office model L. C. Smith beautilully rehnilt with all standard improvements — basket shift, standard 84 character, 4-r()w keyboard, shift lock key, back spacer. 2 color ribbon, ribbon reverse, stencil cutting device, taljulator, etc. Hall bearing throughont — (iniet operation. THOUSANDS PAID 8 102.50 — IT’S YOUTIS I 'OR OXT.Y $29.90 (CASH IHIICK). No risk, money back guarant(H'I

2 YEAR GUARANTEE

Our 2 year ironclad guarantiee is your assurance of satisfaction and long sservice! You must be satisfied that this as the bfggest, best typewriter bargain ever offered! Opr 30 years of Fair Dealing Hacks I^p This Ou^irantee.

£4 INCH CARRIAGES

The L. C. Smith with basket shift is the ma chine used by scaools, large corporations, and busines? housevS the country over. A perfect typewriter for office work, correspondence, manifold worki etc. The wide carriage model contains ali modern improvements same as the regular car.riage (illustrated) but takes paper 14 inches wide and hais a writinq line of 12 inches. This is the machine you need f’or making government reports, using large office forms, bil.ling, etc. It can be yours at No Extra Cost for a limited ti^me — only $29.90 cash— an extremely low price for a wide carriage machine — or buy on easy terms of.$2.00 a mnntli — l ess than the cost of renting an inferior macliine:


For those who have no typewriter stand or handy place to use a machine I make this special offer. This attractive stand that ordinarily sells for.$4.85 can be yours for only $2.00 extra added to your ticconiit. Quality built. Just note all its convenient features. (See Coupon.)

w

I I v

working

height.

Mounted on casters, can be moved touch of finger.


We give FREE with your L. C. Smith a complete 9 lesson Home Study course of Famous Van Zandt Touch q\yping system. AAu can now learn typing quickly and easily.


Accept this wide open offer non\ Send no money. Use L. C. Smith for 10 days trial in yonr home. Ilidurn it if yon don’t think it the greatest value yon have ever setai. If you buy, pay on easiest ^ terms -oTily $2.00 a mouth. 2 yr. iroiielad guarantee.

Avoid disappointment — mail coupon today.

^ _ _

INTERNATIONAL TYPEWRITER EXCHANGE, Dept. 492, 231 W. Monroe St., Chicago, III.

Send me L. C. Smith (F.O.B. Chicago) f^s- TO days' trial. If I kerp it I will \pay $2.00 per month until easy term price ($33.90) is paid. If I am not satis- 'Sed. I can return it express collect.

D 10" carriage □ 14" carriage (NO EXTRA CHARGE)

□ Check for ts'pewriter stand ($2.00 extra). Stand sent on receipt of first payment on L. C. Smith.

Name. Age.

Addrass

Typewritten signatures not acccptahle.

INTERNATIONAL TYPEWRITER EXCHANGE 251 West MonrCfi Street Dept. 492 Chicago, Ilk

City State...........

CAUTION; quick shipment give occupation "©"o.ooo "'**"“-*


AND


yo44^Uelt /tacUiUi

SICKNESSse ACCIDENT

It Can Happen to You

Thousands of people are disabled every hour of the day through Sickness and Accidents. Don't let sickness or accident find you unprepared. Get a Security Policy. The cost is so low that you cannot afford to be without this protection.

■*l

ViF PAY


sc nnn nn ^

The Security Sickness and Accident Policy will protect you, and give your family quick cash money to pay the bills when your income is stopped because of sickness or accident. Think of it — cash money when you need it most! ^This remarkable policy pays CASH protection of $25.00 each week as specified for sickness— and $25.00 each week up to ten weeks for accident. Half benefits after age 60. Protection for men and women against BOTH sickness and accident.

The policy also provides cash protection up to $5,000.00 for accidental death, loss of hands, eyes or feet AND has many other liberal features.

COSTS ONLY $1 PER MONTH

You cannot afford to pass up the opportunity to examine this new Security Policy on our 10- day Free Inspection offer without obligation. Remember, it provides protection for men and women against both sickness and accidents at a very low cost.

MAN or WOMAN, 16 to 75 - NO PHYSICAL EXAMINATION

If you are between the ages of 16 and 75, man or woman, send coupon below at once. No medical or physical examination. No agent will call. The Arcadia Mutual Casualty Company is a reliable, safe, dependable company. It has the approval of the Illinois State Insurance Department and offers you this unusual policy at very low cost. Because of

the liberal benefit features giving protection against both sickness and accidents, only one “Security Policy” will be issued to each person, but any person may apply. Don’t delay! Send coupon today for complete information how to get the Security Sickness and Accident Policy for your free inspection.

AOCHMULATED BENEFITS FOR ACCIDENTAL DEATH, Loss of Hands, Eyes or Feet

uoo.oo

UOO.OO


MAIL TODAY/





$100.00


UOO.OO


^All as specified in the Policy

S

end no money with this coupon. At no cost to you, we will send you complete information and tell you how to get the Security Sickness and Accident Policy for Your Own Free Inspection— in the privacy of your own home!

MAIL COUPON TODAYIVNo agent will call. You alone judge and decide. Don’t wait until it’s too late. You never know when an accident or sickness may come — be prepared. Act now. Send the coupon today without obligation.


THE ARCADIA MUTUAL CASUALTY COMPANY 75 East Wacker Drive, Chicago, III. Desk 22-B

Please send me complete information at once and tell me how I may get the “Security Policy” for 10-day Free Inspection without obligation. No agent will call. I am to be the sole judge.

NameStreet or R. F. D.

City...—.

State..

[THE END]
