============================================================
Weird Tales
Volume 14, Number 6
Date: December 1929
============================================================
============================================================
TABLE OF CONTENTS

  1. "The Inheritors August W" by Derleth
============================================================
============================================================
THE INHERITORS AUGUST W
by Derleth
============================================================
And once again I drove tiie devil back from her mouth.

^The Story of a Lethal Curse

THE INHERITORS

By AUGUST W. DERLETH

T here is no longer any valid reason for withholding the true facts of the tragedy at Hudson Heights from the public, and I chronicle these facts now in response to the pressure of public opinion.

The matfer really began with Momsen ’s note of the seventh, asking me down for the seventeenth, or before, if possible. Momsen was an odd chap, but always intensely interesting. Our mutual interest in archeology had brought us together some years before. From the first, Momsen had been interested in old houses. A mere interest had developed into a passion, and within the half-year preceding the note of the seventh I heard from mutual friends that he had finally acquired an old colonial mansion somewhere along the Hudson. He had named it, aptly enough, Hudson Heights.

It was at this place that Momsen met me at midday of the seventeenth. He was little changed, except that faint lines had apiieared around his mouth and eyes. His hair, too, was graying at the temples.

“I thought you weren’t coming, old man. I’d about given up hope.” He laughed as he took my suitcase, and again when I explained that I had been detained at the office. “I might have suspected that,” he said.

He disappeared into another room with my belongings. When he returned I began to question him — could it be his birthday? I daresay I amused him, for he brushed my questions aside, explaining that he had called me down because he

thought me tlie most reliable of all his acquaintances for the thing we were to go through. This was a point gained, and I urged him on.

“You notice there’s a striking lack of servants?” he asked.

I nodded. I had noticed it, and had intended asking about it. In a house like this, and with the money that Momsen made no seci’et of having, the absence of servants was inexcusable.

“Every year the servants take off on the seventeenth of this month. Prior to this year, even the owners of the place were out of it on that day.”

“WTiy?” I asked in ill-concealed wonder.

He shrugged his shoulders. “On the seventeentli of February, this place is turned over to the ghost. O'!’ ghosts, whichever it is. Only on this date is the house haunted.”

With this he rose, refusing to answer my questions, and promised to take the matter up in detail at dinner that evening.

D usk was coming on when we seated ourselves at the table in the old dining-room. Momsen began his story Avithout hesitation, though I noticed that he was vaguely disconcerted by the absence of the seiwants, for more than once his hand stole out toward the bell cord, as if to ring the bell in the seiwants’ quartei’s. Beyond that, he was perfectly at his ease.

“The whole thing started in 1792, on the night of the seventeenth of February. One Henrik van Damm, then owner of this place, much the

THE INHERITORS


same at, that time as it is now, was fatally stabbed with a rapier while he was at table. He was stabbed in the back, so the story goes, and did not know who stabbed him. Nor would anyone tell him, for I understand he was cordially hated. He cureed all in the house on that day in the double breath that remainccl to him before he died. A gi'cat many versions of the curse got about, of course, but everyone seemed to agree that the curse would pass off only when the oldest of four generations of the 'murderer’s descendants had been killed.

“That mixch sounds as if it might have happened, doesn’t it?”

I nodded. It struck me then that I had read of the incident in some old history of New York, but at the moment I found it impossible to trace my source.

“What follows doesn’t soimd so plausible. It seems that everj'one in that house on the seventeenth died within a year — quite naturally, however, I understand. It was thought somewhat unusual that all those people should die before the following February, but coincidence was not ruled out. Some people put the whole aftermath down to coincidence, but most of the natives candidly professed the belief that the deaths had occurred through the diabolism of the dead van Damm.

“After that, the place stood vacant for a good many years. In 1827 a well-to-do New Yorker took the place, remodeled it somewhat, and prepai’ed to live in it. In the house this man found a packet of letters that proved conclusively that Milady van Damm’s lover had killed the old man. It had been prearranged, and on the basis of the general hatred of old van Damm, it was carried out, without even a protest from his wife. At any rate, nothing remained to make anyone hesitate about living in the hoxxse. In 1828, on the first seventeenth of February that he was in the house, the new oxvner died. The doctors said

that there had been some heart trouble, but it got around that there was a curious burnt mark on the man’s breast. A year later the man’s son and heir died in precisely the same way. Then the family decamped, and, of course, the cui’se and its history Avere bnxited about once more. On the strength of the letters found, an addition Avas made to the curse — that those aa'Iao lived in the house before the time of the curse had expired Avmuld inherit the curse and all its eAul. But the real inheritors AA^ere to remain the oldest in each of the four successive generations of the murderer’s line.

“At this point, too strong a coincidence to be disregarded enters into the story. You liavc been aAvare of my eccentricities, among them the peculiar and inexplicable dread that I undergo on the scA'cnteenth of February.”

I recollected that Momsen had once said something, and said as much. He went on.

“Well, the letters found in 1827 gave the name of the murderer as Moomsenn, Avhich is not entirely like mine, but similar enough to be taken as an old form of my name. That fact in itself means nothing, of course, but Avhen you add to that the knoAA’ledge of my grandfather’s sxidden death after the birth of his only son, my father, and my father’s tragic accident on the night of my birth, the coincidence begins to take definite form. To top it off, I might add that Ave knoAV absolutely nothing about our ancestry beyond my grandfather. It is entirely possible, you see, that the loA'er of Milady A-an Damm was a lineal ancestor of mine — ^my greatgrandfather, most ])robably.”

“Rot!” I exclaimed.

“In that ease,” he AA'ent on Avithout hesitation, “he AA'Ould haA'e been the first of the inheritors, and I will be — the fourth ! ’ ’

I ridiculed the suggestion, and he fi’eely acee])ted the ridicule. He conWEIED TALES


sidered the chance remote, and had only mentioned it as such.

“But to go on with the stoiy of the house,” he said at last. “In 1872 it was again occupied. Since the region was saturated with the legends concerning the house, it was thought advisable to vacate it on the seventeenth of February. This was done regularly until 1877, when the head of the house excused the servants but stayed in the building himself, together with his family. He was found dead on the morning of the eighteenth. Doctors again said heart trouble, but no doctor could explain the burnt mark on the man’s breast. After that, the house was faithfully vacated on successive seventeenths of February.

“Thus, in time, the legend got about that old Henrik van Damm returns on the night of February seventeenth to kill the head of the hoiise. Psychic investigators say that the house is merely the abode of forces of evil, which manifest themselves on that particular night, and it is true that no one has ever seen a ‘ghost’ here. It is my opinion that all this is a vast coincidence; you and I are up here to prove that statement tonight — and I hope we’ll do it!

“But there are several things that bother me, and one in particular. When I first got into this house something happened that I’ve never quite forgotten. In a moment when my mind was wandering, I got up one day from the table and walked into the wall as if to pass through a door. Later, when I looked over old plans of the house, I found that there had originally been a door in that place, but that it had been sealed over in 1827!”

I said nothing, for I frankly did not know how to take the stoiy. It was considerably outside my ken. You can imagine the reaction of a staid business man in such a position.

“Well,” I said at last, “I’m willing to face the ghost, if you are.”

He nodded, and set about clearing the table.

■fX^HAT happened after that I’m » » not certain. I know that Momsen and I sat and drank of his good liquor until both of us were feeling somewhat unnecessarily gay under the circumstances. It all started when Momsen got up from the table and went to the door. He stuck his head out into the hall; then came back to the table.

“I say,” he said, “do you smell anything?”

“No,” I answered, but even as I said it a faint whiff of smoke came to my nostrils.

“Sulfur, isn’t it?” asked Momsen.

I agreed with him. “Got any in the house?” I asked.

“None. And nothing that would smell like that, I’m sure. It must come from outside. Just notice how the drapes of that window billow inward — ^where’d that wind come from so suddenly?”

Perhaps the liquors had made both of us rather hazy. The lights seemed suddenly dim. Momsen stood opposite me. His eyes were raised somewhat; they were fixed on the window opening on the terrace. I turned; there was nothing there, save the drapes being whipped to and fro by the wind. The atmosphere was heavy with the odor of some obnoxious drug that seemed to deaden us ; a swirling fog seemed to fill the room. Momsen raised an arm suddenly and pointed.

“Look!” he screamed. “Look!”

But I could see nothing. The air was cold with a ghastly chill, and from a distance came the sound of feet running — it was as if they were coming toward us with the wind that had arisen from some eldritch source and was sweeping now through the old dining-room. Then there sounded far away a cry, rising and falling, demoniac, shrill, fraught with horror.

THE INHERITORS


At the same moment Momseu's face twisted utterly. In the dim light that fell on him he looked grisly; the shadows of his face stood out like great black holes in his w'hite skin,

“Look!’' his voice whispered eerily. “Look!”

lie flung out his arms as if to ward off something ; then he fell flat on his face.

At once the eeiy disturbance was stopped. The rushing, whistling wind was gone; the drapes at the windows swayed gently. There were no sounds of running feet, nor weird cries from the sky. The lights became brighter.

For a moment I stood there, trying to recover myself. I remember that I reached for the decanter of liquor before I thought of Momsen. Then I ran to him. ‘ ‘ The shock has been too much for him,” I thought, and bent to pick him up.

His hand was cold as ice ! It needed

no cxj)erl to tell that he wa.s dead. I turned him over on his back. Ills eyes were wide and staring — his face was a t)ictui’e of abject terror. But it was his breast that attracted my immediate attention. His dinner coat and vest were virtually burned away, so that his breast lay exposed. Just below the breast-bone was a dark, browni.sh discoloration, as if a longdead Avound had burned itself to the surface. It looked for all the world as if the point of a rapier had come through from the back, leaving the flesh burned in this unholy manner.

^‘The — fourth — inheritor!” I murmured, half beside myself.

Even as I said it, there came a whirling breath of ice-cold air that struck me full in the face, passed and was gone. I turned. The long drapes at the window were shuddering, but above the horror of it all, I felt a vast brooding sense of peace!

A Short eird-ScientiJic Story

The Depths of the Lens

By N. R. McFarland


(Excerpt from the notebook of Robert Jamson)

T he affair started when I was given a small specimen by a friend of mine, a student of geology, who had found it Avhile searching for odd stones in a pile of river gravel. The small, globular, crystallike roek had caught his eye, and he brought it to me, who, besides being a chemist of some note, have also delved rather deeply into geologic researches. At first glance the stone resembled nothing so mvxch as a cheap glass marble, but on closer inspection, one found that it actually glowed, with a pale green light. And, while its outer shape was perfectly spherical, if one contemplated it for very long one saw things rather monstroits to one brought up on as much orthodox Euclidean geometry as I was. Tetrahedrons, and other polyhedrons mingled with decagons and other polygons. One figure seemed always to merge into another and disappear, giving way to others which were dis-sipated in the same way. The



sides of tJie ])lane figures and the edges of the solid ones were not straight, but eiuwing, lines that wavered like lines of smoke, and then changed position. If I concentrate deeply on some other subject, however, this fancy can be thrown off, and the globe will seem almost normal again.

I am perfectly sure, knowing what I do of this stone, that it was never created on this earth. It may have been brought from the far reaches of interstellar space by a meteor, or — ridiculous thought in one who has alway i)Ooh-poohed all such imaginative ideas — it may have been left in the river-bed by an expedition from a far world.

Be that is it may, I now use this globe as a lens for a new form of microscope I have invented, which stands befoi’e me as I Avrite. Impelled by idle curiosity, I one day inserted it in the tube, and was surprized by the result. Perhajjs because of the unusual geometrical figures within, or for some other equally i)eeuliar reason, this lens not only magnifies greatly, but gives an examiner the effect of being on the glass slide, instead of above it. When I observe crystals of any sort through this lens, I seem to be beside towering and geometrically correct buildings, in orthorhombic, monoelinic, or any other of the myriad forms of erj^stals. A powdered chemical seen through it gives one the effect of being surrounded by immense boulders or rocks. During the course of some of these expei-iments, I tried a simple chemical trick, every part of the experiment being carried on under the lens. Through a medicine dropper I dropped the solution I had made up onto the slide, looking through the eyepiece at the same time. I felt that I had been transported to another world with that one look.

The ground under my feet was not earth, but a transparent composition which was hard and brilliant. I seemed to be directly in front of an

immense yellow wave which was bearing straight dowm on me. It swept on, and engulfed me, forcing me to sti'uggle for my life in the oily waves. Soon I noticed, to my surprize, that the level of the liquid was going down rapidly and a thick yellow scum was swirling and twisting in ])laces on the surface. Here was a new danger, I thought. If I were not careful I should be drawn into o)ie of those whirljjools of scum. But even while I was trying to evade them, they ceased to be scum, and even as I watched became vast, transparent, yellow edifices which grew larger each second, extending in aU directions. I gasjjed in horror as the comer of a building grew^ straight toAvard me. If I did not move, this thing would crush me under millions of tons of transparent yellow stone. But I could not move a muscle, and like a coward closed my eyes to wait supinely for the end.

I can’t de.scribe the agonies I endured during the moment I waited with ray eyes closed. When I opened them sloAvly, and looked up, I saw the familiar ceiling of my laboratory. With a laugh, I came to myself. What a fool I Avas ! To be taken in like that through a mere microscope! Then I again bent my eye to the tube, and felt again that sensation of fear. The buildings still tOAvered beside me, but — ^Avith Avhat relief I realized that! — they had stopped groAA’ing. I closed my eyes again, and removed my eye from the tube. I recognized the buildings for what they Avere, and laughed again.

Since then I have again and again done the same experiment. I feel the greatest horror ditring the time I have the sensation of being on the slide, but by closing my eyes I am able to escape from it, and become myself again. Sometimes I seem barely to escape from the building in time, and have a terrible effort to close my eyes. Since that is the only way to escape, I have fottnd out, I feel that if ever I am unable to close them, I

THE DEPTHS OF THE LENS


shall be crushed. I sometimes think that perhaps the globe brought an evil genie with it from whatever dark, farflung star it came from, and that he is trying to imprison me until I am cruslied on that glass slide. But that way lies maxiness. It is impos-sible. utterly. And yet, when I think of those moments of superb horror down there, I wonder.

Tonight I am tortured by doubts. I loiow my conjectures to be impossible, but nevertheless I shall try it, and make sure. I shall descend to the bottom again, and test out my thoughts. Then when the moment comes that the buildings grow toward me, I will not close my eyes, but I will keep them open, and show myself how absurd my fancies are.

I have a peculiar feeling, which reason also teUs me is ridiculous, that I am not coming back from tMs trip to the slide. When I look through the microscope, it seems that I am really made smaller, and that I am projected down on the slide ; though whether it is the slide or the lens I am sometimes imable to tell. I have the sensation of being on the slide, but at the same time I seem to be in the globe. Perhaps my body goes to the slide, made thousands of times smaller, of course, and my soul, in the form of a pink butterfly or something of tliat sort, to the lens. Well, aside with idle faiicies and prepare for the lest. I leave tliis notebook here on the laboratory table in the event that I am unable to come back from' the depths of the lens. No one will believe this account, and there will be no way to prove it. If I should be crushed, my body would be so small that it

could never be seen under the great bulk of a crystal — or building.

Well, I have the solution all mixed and in the dropper. Here goes !


(Clipping from the Newville Banner, August 10, 1929.)

Univemty Professor Disa^ears

NEWVILLE, August 30. — University officials and townspeople both are wondering about the mysterious disappearance of Dr. Robert Janison, assistant professor of chemistry at the university here. The brilliant young doctor was last seen at ton o’clock last night, when the janitor of the building closed up for the evening. Dr. Jamson was engaged in research work at that time, and told the janitor that he would let himself out. Since then nothing has been seen of him. A possible explanation was suggested by a notebook left on his desk, but when examined, this proved to contain nothing but rather wild rambliiigs. One of the psychologists at the university, after examining the notebook, said that the disapjasarance furnished a remarkable example of the influence of fear, but further than that he would say nothing.

Another curious article on the table was a new form of microscope, believed to have been invented by Dr. damson, which had a peculiar globular lens, wliich seemed to glow with a pale green light. No explanatioB could be given of Ibis, nor of the glass slide in the mieroscoj>e. It was covered with orthorhombic crystals of sulfur, of the type formed in an elementary chemical experiment when sulfur is dissolved in carbon disulfid and allowed to crysLillize out, which it does with great rapidity.

Police all over the state are on the lookout for Dr. damson, for whose disappearance university oflicials could give no motive. He was not known to have any love affairs, and his w'ork was proceeding very satisfactorily. Laboratory assistants, however, said that be bad grown increasingly moody during the last few days, evra* since he waa given a queer geologic specimen, which haj been mentioned as the lens of the microscope.

The Stranger from Kurdistan*

By E. HOFFMANN PRICE

“"W T" OU claim that demonolatry went out of existence at the A end of the Middle Ages, that devil-worship is extinct? . . . No, I do not speak of the Yezidis of Kurdistan, who claim that the Evil One is as worthy of worship as God, since, by virtue of the duality of all things, good could not exist without its antithesis, evil; I speak rather of a devil-worship that exists today, in this Twentieth Century, in civilized, Christian Europe ; secret, hidden, yet nevertheless quite real; a worship based upon a sacrilegious perversion of the ritual of the church. . . . How do I know? That is aside from the question ; sufSce it to say that I know that which I know.”

S o HIGH was the tower of Semaxii that it seemed to caress the very stars ; so deep-seated were its foundations that there was more of its great bulk beneath the ground than thei’C was above. Bathed in moonlight was its crest ; swathed in sevenfold veils of darkness was its ponderous base. Old as the pyramids was this great pile of granite which took its name from the mined city, ef equal antiquity, sprawled at its base. ,

♦From WEIRD TALES, July, 1925.

84S

A dark form approached, advancing swiftly through the gloomdrenched rains, a darkness among the shadows, a phantom that moved with sinister certitude.

Suddenly the shadow halted, and its immobility became a part of the suiTounding darkness. Other and lesser forms passed, slinking silently to the cavernous entrance of Semaxii, there vanishing in its obscure depths. And all were unaware of the form that had regarded them from its vantage-point.

A cloud parted. A ray of moonlight fought its way through the Cimmerian shadows, dissolving all save one, the darkest; and this darkest one it revealed as the tall form of a man wrapped in a black cape, and wearing a high silk. hat.

Another rift in the clouds; more light, which now disclosed the features as well as the form of the shadowy stranger; haughty features with a nose like the beak of a bird of prey; the cold, pitiless 'eye of an Aztec idol ; thin lips drooping in the shadow of a cynical smile; a man relentless and magnificent in defeat.

“The fools have all assembled to pay tribute to their folly; seventyseven of them who will tonight adore their lord and master . . . and with

THE ,STRAN 0 EE FRO:\[ KUEHISTAN


what rites? ... It is long since I have witnessed ...”

He paused in his reflections to count the .strokes of a bell whose sound crept softly across the wastelands.

“Little of my last night remains; howeyer, let me waste it well.”

So saying, he gathered his cape about him, and swiftly strode to the entrance of the tower.

“Halt!” snapped a voice from the gateway.

The ray of an electric torch bit the darkness and fell full upon the stranger’s face.

“Halt, and give the sign.”

“Who am I to give, or you to receive ? ’ ’ answei’ed the stranger, as if intoning an incantation or reciting a fixed formula.

“Pass on.”

And thus the stranger passed the outer guard of the shrine of dcmonolatr>% the holy of holies where Satan received the homage of his vassals. Past the outer guard was the stranger, but far from the sanctuary wherein the Black Mass was celebrated, wherein the Lord of the World was worshipt with blasphemous rites.

A thousand steps of iey granite, winding in endless succession like the coils of a vast earthworm, led to the foundations of the tower. And at intervals, .slieeted and hooded warders halted the stranger and demanded sign and pas.sword; and each in turn, as he received a sign, shrank and dropped his gaze before the hard, inscrutable eye of the stranger.

Down, down to the very basements of the earth ; and then he found himself before a door guarded by two masked figures garbed in vermilion. Again there was an exchange of signs, after which the two vermilion figures bowed low as the door opened to admit him to the vaulted

sanctuary where the De^dl was that night to 1)0 invoked.

The stranger doft’ed his high hat, then, after a courtly bow to the assemblage, sti-odc up tlie aisle and seated himself on one of the hrazen stools that were placed, row aftei* row, like the pews of a chapel. Once seated, he gazed about him, taking stock of his surroundings.

The black altar before him. \vith its crucifix bearing a hideously caricatured Christ, received but a passing glance; nor was any more attention accorded to the walls and vaulted ceiling whose grotesquely obscene carvings leered at him through the acrid, smoke-laden air like the distorted fancies of a perverted brain. Nor yet, apparently, did he note the acolyte who was trimming the black candles at the altar, nor did he seem to wonder that the floor beneath his feet was sprinkled with powdered saffron. It was the company itself that he stiidied, observing with interest the old roues and young sj'barites, male and female, the seventy-seven who had assembled to adore Satan, their lord and master.

In the main, the seventy-seven were pei’sons of wealth and distinction, who, having tried and found wanting every field of human endeavor and achievement, had sought thrills in the foulness and degradation of the mediaeval rites of devilworship; rakes whose .iaded appetites sought satiation in the orgies that followed the celebration of the Black Mass; atheists who, deeming pa.s.sive atheism an inadequate form of rebellion, found expression in a ritual who.se sacrilege satisfied their iconoclastic desires.

Attendants bearing ti’ays made their way among the seventy-seven, offering them glasses of wine and small amber-colored pa.stils. These last the wor.shipcrs either swallowed or else dissolved in their wine and drank.



'^HE Stranger turned to the initiate who occupied the stool at his side.

“Tell me, brother*, the nature of the rites to be celebrated here tonight.”

The initiate eyed him narrowly as he sipped his wine.

“‘'^at do you mean?”

“Why,” began the stranger blandly, “I am a foreigner, and I fancied that the ritual here may be different from what it is in my native land. I must confess,” he continued, “that I am puzzled to see an altar and a crucifix in this shrine devoted to the worship of the Evil One. ’ ’

The initiate stared at him in amazement.

“It must be a curious rite that you witnessed. Do you not know that we have a priest who celebrates the

mass, and then ”

“A pi-iest?” interrupted the

str*anger. “The mass? Why ”

“Surely; if not a priest, if not a mass, how could the arch-enemy become incarnate in the bread which we, the worshipers of Satan, defile and pollute as a tribute to our lord and master? Surely you must be a foreigner from some heathen land not to know that only an ordained priest of the church can cause the miracle of transubstantiation to take place. But tell me, who are you?”

“You would be amazed,” replied the stranger, smiling enigmatically, “if you knew who I am.”

Then, before the initiate could continue his queries, a gong sounded, thinly, rather as the hiss of a serpent than as the clang of bronze; a panel of the vault opened, admitting the vermilion-robed, misshapen bulk of the priest. Following him were nine acolytes, likcAvise robed in vermilion, and bearing censers fuming with an overpoweringly heavy incense. As they marched slowly down the aisle, they raised their voices in a shrill chant. The seventy-seven sank to their knees, heads bowed.

The high priest halted before the altar, bowed solemnly, then, with the customary gestures and phrases, went through the ritual of the mass, the kneeling acolytes making the responses in Latin. He then descended to the bottom step of the altar and began his invocation to Satan.

“Oriflamme of Iniquity, thou who guidest our steps and givest us strength to endure and courage to resist, receive our petitions and accept our praise; Lord of the World, hear the pi'ayers of thy servants; Father of Pride, defend us against the hypocrisies of the favorites of God! Master*, thy faithful sei’vants implore thee to bless their iniquities which destroy soul and conscience alike; power, glory and riches they beg of thee. King of the Disinherited, Son who battles with the inexorable Father: all this we ask of thee, and more. Master of Deceptions, Rewarder of Ci*ime, Lord of Luxurious Vice and Monumental Sin, Satan, thee whom we adore, just and logical god!”

The high prie.st rose, faced the altar and crucifix bearing its lifesized mockery of a caricatured Christ, and in shrill, malignant accents cried out his blasphemies : “And thou, thou in my office as priest I compel to descend into this host, to become incarnate in this bread, .Tesirs, filcher of homage, thief of affection ! Harken ! From the day that the virgin gave thee birth thou hast failed in thy promises ; the ages have wept in awaiting thee, mute and fugitive god! Thou wert to redeem mankind, and thou hast failed ; thou wert to appear in glory, and thou liest asleep; thou who wert to intercede for us with the Father, hast failed in thy mission, lest thy eternal slumber be disturbed! Thou hast forgotten the poor to whom thou hast preached! Thou who hast dared punish by virtue of unheardof law.s, we would hammer upon thy

THE STRANGER FROM KURDISTAN


nails, bear down upon tby crown of thorns, draw blood anew from thy dry wounds! And this we can do, and this we will do, in violating the repose of thy body, profaner of magnificent vice, glutton enamored of gluttony, accursed Nazar ene, idle king, sluggish god ! ’ ’

‘ ‘ Amen, ’ ’ came the hoarse response of the seventy-seven through the stifling, incense-laden air.

The priest, having once more ascended the altar steps, turned and with his left hand blessed the worshipers of Satan. Then, facing the Orucified One, in a solemn but mocking tone he pronounced, “Hoc esi enim corpus ineum.”

At these words the seventy-seven, crazed as much by the drugged wine and amber-hued pastils as by the sacrilegious madness of the ceremony, groveled upon the saffronsprinkled floor, howling and moaning, overcome by a demoniac frenzy. The priest seized the consecrated bread, spat upon it, subjected it to unmentionable indignities, tore it to pieces which ho offered to the worshipers of Satan, who crept forward to receive this mockery of a communion.

first of that mad group of devil-worshipers rose to his knees and was about to receive his portion when there came a startling interruption.

“Fools, cease this mockery!”

It was the stranger’s voice, a voice whose arrogant note of command, ringing through that vaulted chapel like the clear, cold peal of destruction, silenced the frenzied devotees, so that not a breath was audible. The acolytes stood transfixed at the altar. The high priest alone retained command of himself ; but even he was momentarily abashed, shrinking before the flaming, fierce eye of the .stranger.

Yet the priest quickly recovered himself.

“Who are you,” he snarled, “to interrupt the sacrifice?”

The seventy-seven, though still .speechless, had recovered from the complete paralysis that their faculties had suffered. They saw the stranger confronting the high priest on the altar steps; they heard his voice, in reply, rich, sonorous, majestic :

“You, the high priest of Satan, and ask me who I am? I am Ahriman, whom the Persians feared; I am Malik Taus, the wliite peacock whom men worship in far-off Kurdistan; I am Lucifer, the morning star; I am that Satan whom you invoked. Behold, I have returned in mortal form to meet and defy my adversary.”

He pointed to the crucifix, then continued, “And a worthy adversary he is. Nor think that yonder simulacrum is the Christ I have sworn to overthrow. Fools! Besotted beasts, think you that it is serving me to deride a foe who has held me at bay these countless ages? Think you to serve me by this mummery? This very mass which you have celebrated, though in derision and in defiance of him, acknowledges his divinity; and though in mockery, you have nevertheless accepted him in taking this bread as his body. Is this serving me, your lord and master?”

“Impostor!” .shrieked the high prie.st, his face distorted with rage; “impostor, you claim to be Satan?”

That high-pitched scream stirred the seventy-seven from their inertia, aroused them again to their frenzy. Gibbering and howling, they leapt to their feet and closed in on the stranger.

But at that instant a cloak of elemental fire, the red, blinding flame of a thousand suns, enshrouded Satan’s foi’m, and from it rang that same clear, cold voice, “Fools! Madmen ! I disown and utterly deny you!”



/^xcE again in the ruins at the foot '^of the Tower of Semaxii was the dark stranger, Satan as he had revealed himself to his followers. He seemed to be alone, yet he was speaking, as if with someone facing him.

“Nazarene,” he said, “on that day whei’ein I challenged you to meet me Avith weapons and on ground of your own choosing to do battle for the em- }Aerj' of the Avorld, I was foolish and knew not whereof I spoke.”

He paused, lowered liis eyes for a

moment, as if to rest them from the strain of gazing at an awful and intolerable radiance, then continued : “You they crucified; me they would have torn in pieces, their Lord and master; both of us they have denied. I wonder Avhose folly is the greater, yours in seeking to redeem mankind, or mine in striving to make it my OAvm.”

And with these Avords Satan turned, liis haughty head boAA’ed, and turning, disappeared among the ruins.

A KING IN BABYLON

(Reprint)

By W. E. HENLEY

Or ever the loiightly years Avei’e gone With the old Avoricl to the graA'e,

I was a King in Babylon

And you Avere a Christian Slave.

I saAV, I took, I cast yoxi by,

I bent and broke your pride.

You loved me Ax^ell, or I heard them lie,

But your longing Avas denied.

Surely I kncAv tJiat bye and bye You cursed your gods and died.

And a myriad suns liave set and shone Since then upon the graA*e

Decreed by the King in Babylon To her that had been his slave.

The pride I trampled is noAV my scathe,

For it tramples me again.

The old resentment holds like death.

For you love, yet you I'efrain.

I break my heart on your hard unfaith.

And I bi’eak my heart in A'ain.

Yet not for an hour do I wish undone That deed beyond the grave.

When I was a King in Babylon And you were a Virgin Slave.

Are You Bashful?

NERVOUS? EMBARRASSED?

SHY?

NO WONDER YOU ARE A “STAY-AT-HOME”

D O YOU ever feel embarrassed in the presence of strangers? Are you always bashful and confused when you meet people for the first time or when you are in company of the opposite sex?

A re you missing all the good things and good times in life just because you are BASHFUL and SHY?

Girls and Boys, Men and Women who are timid, nervous, self-conscious and easily embarrassed never have much fun. How do you expect anybody to seek your acquaintance and companionship if you lack confidence in yourself? It is not always the good looking attractive men and women that are showered with all the attention.

To be popular — always in demand at parties, and affairs and social gatherings one must be a good mixer and possess a pleasant personality. Why should you sit at home, feeling blue and out of sorts — ^no place to go — nobody to see ? Stop being bashful and embarrassed when you meet people for the first time or when you are in the company of the opposite sex.

You Are Se^-Conscious!

Shame on yon! There is no need for you to be nervous and embarrassed. Stop being shy. You can learn how to conquer the terrible fear of your superiors.

DO NOT BE DISCOURAGED!

Every individual now suffering from Bashfulness (Self-Consciousness) will welcome this good news. Remarkable discovery used with great success — whereby you can qixickly and easily overcome your faults. Be cheerful and confident of your future! If you’re Bashful — don’t wait another day — Send 25c for my fascinating, amazing book. Tells how to master and overcome Self-Consciousness. Write today.

R. BLACKSTGNE

B-2812 Flatiron Building New York City

Richard Blackstone,

B-Z812 Flatiron Building, New York City.

Please send me a copy of your book on Nervousness and Bashfulness. I am enclosing 25 cents in coin or stamps.

Name

Address ^

City State

Kindly mention this magazine when answering advertisements



The Eyrie

(ConUmied from page 73S)

Tell him if ho could write another one like that, he would tie with Poe. Other fine tortni’e tales in your magazine were The Justice of the Czar and The Copper Bou-l; it is such stories that have made your magazine famous.” [Weird Tales has not discontinued torture stories. — The Editor.]

Miss Betty Bogsehutz, of Philadelphia, writes to the Eyrie: “I wish to commend Seabury Quinn on his ability to write weird tales worthy of the name. I am a stenographer for a large coi'poration having a branch office in Philadelphia. My boss being away on business trips almost all day I have plenty of time to digest the story that I like best in your most excellent Weird Tales. I like Trespassing Souls by Seabury Quinn the best for this month, and The White Wizard deserves all the credit that can be heaped upon it, and also on its author, Sophie Wenzel Ellis. A more sympathetic story I have never i*ead than Warning Wings. I hope it is a true story. Much praise to its author, Arlton Eadie. Here's hoping more GOOD stories by Mr. Quinn will be published, and I second the vote of Dick Thomas to publish more than one stoiy by Mr, Quinn each month if possible.”

“For more than two years I have had the pleasure of reading your magazine,” writes M. T. Oakbough, of San Francisco. “Seabury Quinn’s stories, Lovecraft’s, Hamilton’s, all are interesting and tend to make Weiho Tales an unusual scientifically instructive magazine.”

Readers, what is your favorite story in this issue ? Your votes have given first place among the October issue stories to Skull-Face, by Robert E. Howard, ivith The Silver Countess, by Seabury Quinn, a close second in popularity.

MY FAVORITE STORIES IN THE DECEMBER WEIRD TALES ARE: Story Remarke

( 1 ) -

( 2 )

(3)

I do not like the following stories:

(1) Why?

( 2 )

I

It will help us to know what kind of ' Reader’s name and address:

stories you want in Weird Tales if you '

will fill out this coupon and mail it to • — -

The Eyrie, Weird Tales, 840 N. Michigan I Ave., Chicago, 111. I

I



Children of Ubasti

(Continued from page 759)

nightrobe she Avore the night she fled for life through the shattered window. She returned in a few moments, her pale, childish face suffused Avith blushes as she sought to coA'cr the intimate attire by AA'i’apping de Grandin’s fur-lined oA'ercoat more tightly about her slender form. AboA-e the fleece-lined bedroom slippers she AA'ore I caught a glimpse of an inch or so of slim, bare ankle, and mentally rcAolted against the Frenchman’s penchant for realism AAdiich aa-ouM send her A’irtually unclothed into the biting autumn night.

There AA-as no time to voice my protest, hoAA’CA’er, for de Grandin followed close upon her heels, the contents of his parcels of the afternoon beneath his arms. “Behold, my friends,” he ordered .jubilantly, displaying four repeating shotguns, “are thej* not lovely? Pardieu, with these we shall he equipped for any emergency ! ’ ’

The guns Avere tAA-elve-gage models of the un.sportsman-like “pump” variety, and the barrels had heen cut off AA’ith a hack-saw close to the wood, shortening them by almost half their original length.

, “Wliat’s th’ armament for, sor?” 'inquired Costello, examining the AA'eapon de Grandin handed him; “is it a riot Ave’re goin’ out to quell?”

The Frenchman's only ansAver was a grin as he handed guns to Arif Pa.‘dia and me, retaining the fourth AA'eapon for himself. “ TroAA'bridge, mon vieux, you Avill driA*e?” he asked.

Obediently, I slipped into a leather jacket similar to that AA'orn by de Grandin and led the Avay to the garage. A minute later aa'c AAcre speeding toAvard Mooreston.

The Frenchman had CA'idently made a reconnaissance that afternoon, for he directed me unerringly to a large, graystone structui’e on the outskirts

N umerous legends almost as old as the human race represent that the earth once had two moons. HaA'c you ever heard of the Sect of Two yioons! They were the sorcerers of China and were the greate.st scientists this world had ever produced. Talk of modern progress — our arts and sciences, our discoveries and inventions are child’s play beside the accomplishments of this race of C^iineso devils. Shut UAA'ay in that remote interior — in a A'alley so little heard of that it is almost mythical — beyond trackless deserts and the loftiest mountains on the glolx* — this terrible sect of sorcerers has been growing in power for thousands of years, storing up secret energy that some day should inundate the AA'orld with horrors such as never had been known.

This novel narrates the sensational attempt of a group of Chinese scientists to obtain rulership of the Acorld by a tremendous threat against the very existence of the earth. The diabolical methods by Avhich they put their scheme into execution, the frantic* race across the ocean to circuniA’cnt them, the weird and exciting adventures that befell, make one of the most gripping and fascinating novels ever written.

SPECIAL OFFER

This hook is heautifull.A' bound in rich I blue cloth Avith attractive orangej colored jacket and is for sale direct i from the publishers at the special ; price of $1.50 postpaid.

; Remember, this edition is limited and this offer is good only as long as the supply lasts. Rend for this fascinating book now while it is fresh in your mind.

Weird Talcs, Book Dept. M-20.

840 N. niicliia:an Ave., Cliicnito. Illinois.

Enclosed find $1,110 for cloth-bonnd copy of THE MOON TERROR at puhllshcrs’ price.

Name

Address

state

City



of the town. On the north was a patch of dense second-growth pine throngli which the autumn wind soughed moumfulJy. To the east and west lay fallow fields, evidently reservations awaiting the sirrveyor's stake and the enthusiastic cultivation of glib-tongued real estate salesmen. The house itself fronted south on the Albemarle Pike, on the farther side of which lay the grove of oak and chestnut into which Trula had made her escape.

“Quiet, pour ranioitr d’un rat mort!” de Grandin besought. “Stop the motor. Friend Trowbridge. Attendez, mes braves. Allans au feu!

“Now, my little lovely one!” With a courtesy Avhich he might have shown in assisting a marchioness to shed her cloak, he lifted the overcoat from Trula Petersen’s shivering shoulders, bent quickly and plucked the woollined slippere from her feet, then lifted her in his arms and bore her across the roadway intervening between us and the lawn, that the gravel might not bruise her unshod soles. “Quick, toward the house, ma petite,” he ordered. “Stagger, play the drunken one — cry aloud!”

The girl clung trembling to him a moment, but he shook her off and thrust her almost roughly toward the house.

There was no simulation in the terror she showed as she ran unsteadily across the frost-burnt lawn, nor was the deadly fear which sounded in her wailing, thin-edged cry a matter of acting. “Help, help — please help me!” she screamed.

“Excellent; tres excellent,” de Grandin murmured from his covert behind a rhododendron bush. “Make ready, my friends, I damn think they come ! ’ ’

As he spoke there came a momentary flash of light against the dark background of the house, as though a baleful, fiery eye had winked, and something a bare shade darker than

the surroiniding shadows of the night detached it/self from the building and sped with pitiless quickness toward the tottering, half-swooning girl.

Trula saw it even as Ave did, and Avheeled in her tracks with a shriek of sheer, mortal terror. “Save me, save me, it’s he!” she cried wildly.

Half a dozen frenzied, flying steps she took, crashed blindly into a stunted cedar, and fell sprawling on the frosty grass.

A Avild, triumphant yell, a noise half human, half bestial, came from the pursuer. With a single long leap he was on his quarry.

“Parhleu, Monsieur le Demon, we are well met!” de Grandin shouted, springing from his ambush and leveling his sawed-off shotgun.

The dim, leaping form seemed to pause in midair, to retrieve itself in the midst of its spring like a surprized cat. For an instant it turned its eyes on de Grandin, and they gleamed out in the night like the glowing orbs of an infuriated leopard. Next instant it sprang.

There was a sharp click, but no answering belloAv of the gun. The cartridge had missed fire.

“Secours, Friend TroAvbridge; je suis perdu!” the little Frenchman cried, going doAvn iinder a very avalanche of flailing arms and legs. And as he fought off his assailant I saw the flare of gleaming, green eyes, the flash of cruel, white teeth, and heard the hoarse, beast-like growl of the thing that clawed and worried at his fhroat.

Nearer than the other tAvo, I leaped to my friend’s rescue, but as I moved, a second shadoAvy form seemed to materialize from nothingness be.side me, a battle-cry of feline rage shrilled deafeningly in my ears, and a clawing, screaming fury launched itself upon me.

I felt the tough oiled leather of my Avind-breaker rip to shreds beneath the flailing talons that struck at me, looked for an instant into a pair of


857 !

round, blazing phosphorescent eyes, then went down helpless under the furious assault.

“There is no power nor might nor majesty save in Allah, the Merciful, the Compassionate!'’ Arif Pasha chanted close beside me. “In the glorious name of Allah will I take refuge from Satan, the stoned, the rejected!” A charge of B. B. shot sufficient to have felled a bear tore through the clawing thing above me; there was a sharp snapping of metal, and a second blaze of searing light as the riot-gun roared again.

The ear-piercing scream of my assailant diminished to a growl, and the growl sank to a low, piteous moan as the form above me went limp, rolled from my chest and lay twitching on the frosted earth beside me.

I fought unsteadily to my knees and went sick and faint at the warm stickiness that smeared the front of my tattered jerkin. No need to tell a doctor the feel of blood : he learns it soon enough in his grisly trade.

Costello was battering, with the stock of Ms gun, at the infernal thing that clung at de Grandin’s throat, for he dared not fire for fear of striking the struggling Prehcliinan.

“Thanks, good friend,” the little fellow panted, wriggling from beneath his assailant and jumping nimbly to his feet. “Your help was very welcome, even though I had already slit

his heart in two with this ” He

held aloft the murderous, doubleedged hunting-knife with which lie had systematically slashed and stabbed his opponent from the moment they grappled.

“Good Lord o' Moses,” Costello gasped as de Grandin’s flashlight played on the two still, supine forms, “ 'tis Mr. and Mrs. Bear! Who’d ’a’ thought swell folks like them would -”

“Folks, parhleu, my friend, I damnation think you call them out of their proper name!” de Graudin in12 Novels fior $1 .oo

These are copyright novels by well known writers. Printed on good paper with illustrated covers.

Thiilling Mystery Fiction!

Each of these books is an exciting mystery or detective story. Guaranteed to hold your interest.

And you get the entire set of twelve novels for only one dollar! There is no other charge.

Hilt — you muHt act immediately! The supply is limited. Right now. while you think of it.

' tear out this advertisement. All in the coupon below, and return to us with $1.00 (coin, stamps or money order). The complete set of twelve noveis will bo mailed to you promptly, postage prepaid.

POPTJI.AR PICTTON PUBRISHINO OO.,

Dept. 56, 840 N. Michigan Ave.,

Chicago, III.

I enclose $1.00. Send mo the twelve novels, postage prepaid, at once. This $1.00 is payment in full.

Name

Address

' City State



leiTupted sharply. “Look at this, if you plea.se, and this, also!”

Savagely he tore asunder the blacksilk negligee in which the woman had been clothed, displaying her naked torso to his light. From clavicle to ]>ul)es the bo<ly was covered with coai*se, yellowish hair, curled and kinky as a Bushman’s wool, and where the breast.s .should have been there was scarcely any perceptible .swelling. Instead, protrading through the woolly covering was a double row of mammilla’, inhuman as the dugs of a multiparous beast.

“For the suckling of her whelps, had she borne any, which God forbid,” the Frenchman explained in a low voice. “Regardez.” He turned the shot-riddled body over. Like the front, the back was encased in yellowish, woolly hair, beginning just below the line of the scapulse and extending Avell down the thighs.

A hasty examination of the male creature showed a similar coating, but in its case the hair was coarser and of an ugly dirty-gray tone, like the discolored patch upon the back of an elderly gorilla.

“You see?” he asked simply.

“No, I’m hanged if I do,” I retorted as the others held silence. “These are terrible malformations, and their brains were probably as far from normal as their bodies, but ”

“Dites!” he interrupted. “Here is no abnormality, my friend. These creatures are time to fonn. Have I not already rehearsed their history? From the tumuli of Africa they come, for there men pursued them with gun and dog, like the savage beast-things they are. In this new land where their kind arc unknown they assume the garb and manners of men. With i-azor or chemical depilatories they stripped the hair from off their arms and legs, and other places where it would have made them remarkable, and then they lived the liSe of membere of the community — outwardly. Treasure from raAUshed tombs gave them much money ; they were educated like human beings in the schools conducted by well-meaning but thickheaded American missionaries, and all was prepared for their invasion. America is tolerant — too tolerant — of foreigners. More than due allowance is made for their strangeness by those who wish to make them feel at home, and unsirspected, immolested, these vile ones plied their dreadful trade of death among us. Had the female not let her appetite and bestial nature overcome her caution when she slew the young Calebson for his blood, they might have gone for years without the danger of suspicion. As it was” — he elevated his shoulders in an expressive shrug — “their inborn savageness and Jules de Grandin wrought their undoing.

“Come, our work is ftuished. Let us go.”

T rula PETERSEN, once more wrapped in de Grandin ’s greatcoat, wept softly against the little Frenchman’s shoulder as we drove slowly homeward.

“Ah, my little brave one, you are cold, you tremble, you shiver,” he sympathized. “Come, this will wann your frozen blood.” From the pocket of the car door he produced a wide, flat flask of cognac and put it to her lips.

She took a swallow, gasped and choked. “Th — thank you, sir,” she stammered when she had recovered her breath.

“Parhleii, it was an act of simple charity for which I deserve no thanks, ” he returned. “You have finished ? you are through ? you have had enough ? ’ ’

“Yes, thank you.”

“Sergeant, a drink? I know Friend Arif does not use it.”

“Thank ye kindly, sor,” the big



Irishman took a man’s-sized pull at the bottle and returned it.

“Tres Men,” said Jules de Grandin; “ ’twould be shame to us if we bore this back filled.” And he proceeded to drain the big flask to the bottom.

The Gallows Tree

(Continued from page 766)

night into the death of Joseph Worth, 45, of New Jersey, U. S. A, whose body was found Sunday morning on the moor near the village of Polgarth.

Medical evidence tended to establish that Worth had evidently died of strangulation, which was borne out by a livid weal, such as might have been caused by a noose, encircling the man’s throat. No trace of any such noose \vas found, however.

Mr. Roscarroll, the coroner, stated that suicide, under the circumstances, would have been impossible; and no motive for | foul play could be assigned, as the deceased | had' no known enemies, and a considerable | sum of money was found on his person. The jury returned a verdict of death from strangulation inflicted in a manner un- i known.

Further mystery is added to the case by the fact that the late Mr. Worth had apparently left his room in the Polgarth Inn by a window which opens onto a balcony, as his door was locked on the insida A loaded revolver was found on a table beside the bed, and two strong cords were tied, in a peculiar manner, to the posts at the foot of the bed. There was no evidence of any struggle, and apparently, the deceased had left the room of his own accord, although for an unknown motive.

Local antiquarians recall, as a singular coincidence, that centuries ago, a number of criminals were hanged from a gigantic oak, known colloquially as “The Gallows Tree,” which then stood upon the exact spot where Mr. Worth’s body was found, but which was cut down more than one hundred and fifty years ago.

The last person to meet death there was the highwayman known as Black Giles Trewartha, who was betrayed into the hands of the law by his brother Joseph in 1715. As he stood beneath the Gallows Tree, Trewartha imposed a curse upon his brother and on any of the latter’s descendants who should ever tread Cornish soiL

MIND

POWER!

ASTOUNDING

RESULTS

AWAIT YOU

Tour destiny is NOT In the hands of the Gods of Luck or Chance. Don't be a slave to conditions — like chaff in the wind. You are blesst^ with mtgrhty mental and psychic powers; tlu^ powers are lying dormant, unawakened within you. A few simple rules used every day will be the means of bringing about HEALTH. HAPPINESS and PUOSPBRITY.

THE WAY

A world-wide movement, the Rosicrucian Order, for years has sliown sincere men and women how to simply use their INNER FACULTIES to overcome LIFE’S OBSTACLES. Why look around you for help? — within is a solution.

FREE BOOK TELLS STORY^

Sincere seekers may secure, with no obligation, a new book — “THE LIGHT OP EGYPT.” This book tells how you may learn of the wonderful laws used by the Rosicruclans, and how you, too, may put them into practice. If thousands have been helped, why not you? Address a letter (not a postcard) as follows:

LIBRARIAN T.W. T.

AMORC-ROSICRUCIAN ORDER Rosicrucian Park San Jose, Calif.

THE BROTHERHOOD OF THE HOLY PENTAGRAM

A Brotherhood of Mystics

TEACHING

Occultism, Psychology, Ancient Magic, Metaphysics and Comparative Religions. For Information address

SECRETARY GENERAL,

Box 391, Plattsbnrg, N. T.

SONG WRITERS; SUBSTANTIAL ADVANCE Royalties are paid on publisher’s acceptance. New booklet. “Song Requirements of Talking Pictures.” sent free. Newcomer Associates, 784 Earl Building, New York.

INVENTIONS WANTED — PATENTED, TO* patented. If you have an idea for sale, write Hartley. Box 928. Bangor. Maine.



The Mystery of the Four Husbands

( Contmued from page 741 )

•bstinate mind, which was clearly fighting against me noAV.

“ ‘ “Since I asked Delphin to destroy it. That was a gift, sir, which you should never have made, not that I believe that he died of it, but because it would have been your fault if he had killed me with it. Was it the poison that wa.s closed in the belly of a mahogany fetish covei’ed with bizarre signs and curious designs burned into the wood ? ’ ’

“ ‘ “That was it, Olympe. There is no possible eiTor. You know the talitaJi Avell.”

“ ‘ “Yes, Delphin used this poison and the barks of the tree which yoir brought him to make some experiments which interested me, much more than the rest of his work, as a matter of fact. His test-tubes and apparatus amused me in the beginning, Wt one tires of everything. I soon noticed, however, that Delphin was not well, and I blamed his languor on the bad air of the laboratory. I asked him to give up his work for a little Avdiile. He would not, so I asked him at least to do me the favor of destroying the tali-tali. He answei*ed that there was nothing to fear because the tali-tali was only fatal to those rvho drank it and that he was certainly riot crazy enough to drink the liquid, Avhich he had already tried out on chickens and rabbits. He was amused at my childishness, but I gave him no peace until he had destroyed the talitali in front of me and Palmira. Tired of fighting with me about it he threw the fetish and the poison into the fir^ and it was bunicd up in a momelit.”

“ ‘ “How did the poison act in the fire?”

“ ‘ “First there was a long green flame like a sky-rocket and that was followed by a suffocating vapor which we ran from. As for tlm fetish itself, it was nothing more than, an ember

which flashed a last grimace before falling into ashes. That is all, sir, and I have nothing else to tell you, but if it was to hear this that you married me you might as well have dispensed with the ceremony. I would have given you the information just the same, and perhaps I would have loved you afterward. But now please leave this house and never let me see you again.” ’

“When Jaeobini reached this point he stopped and rolled himself a eigarette.

“ ‘And then?’ I asked.

“ ‘Then I left her to question Palmire. I forced her to tell of the talitali also. I attacked her from aU sides. She’s an ignorant peasant and she could not have invented the chmnical effects which she had seen in the fire. All she said agreed to the letter with what Olympe had told me. I asked her all kinds of questions which Olympe could not have foreseen. I went on into other matters and at the end of my investigation I went back to Olympe and threw myself on my knees before her. She pardoned me, Zinzin, because besides being honest she is also very good.’

“ ‘Possible,’ I said, ‘but she is not proud ! ’

“As YOU can Avell imagine, I did not go to call on them, but I saw Jaeobini eight days later. An awful anguish was visible on his pale, restless face.

“ ‘Zinzin,’ he said to me in a hoarse voice, ‘I think I’m infected with it, too. But pei’haps it is only an idea. Yes, an idea! Even the thought of that tali-tali is enough to drive one mad.’

“I didn’t have time to say a word. He had already gone and I was never to see him alive again.

“And this is the frightful tragWEIRD TALES


edy which occurred the next day ae- | cording to the police who with help | from the dying Jacobini and Pal- i mire's statements reconstructed the I scene.

“At noon, Jacobini, who had not seen his wife since morning, went to the pavilion. He was filled with the darkest presentiments in spite of the fact tliat he tried to fi'ee himself of the idea of poison by trj'ing to believe that his illness was due to swamp ' fevers wiiich he had suffered from in j the tropics. I

“Luncheon was seiwed there, and, , as Jacobini entered, a door closed i hurriedly at the end of the room. At i the same time he heard furtive steps I and the sound of a box being closed. He ran to the door, half opened it and saw OljTnpe engaged in low conversation with Palmire. She seemed very much treubled,

^‘At that moment a terrible cramp seized him in the intestines and he i let the door close, having only j strength enougli to drop on the sofa, i With one hand he had unconsciously j taken hold of Olympe’s work-box, ' which was badly closed and showed bits of fine linen. Jacobini ’s fingers, ; clutching at the lid feverishly from | pain, opened it and fumbled in the ' lace. Suddenly they struck a hard object and he stood up, haggard and mad. . . .

“In his hand he held the fetish of death, the horrible phial, the hideous tali-tali which OljTnpe and Palmire had sworn was destreyed, burned be- ; fore them. Oljunpe had lied. Ol 5 Tni>e had poisoned him as she had poisoned the other two. He was to suffer the - atrocious death which had tortured his predecessors.

“Overcoming the agony for a few ; minutes, Jacobini poured what was left of the poison into a bottle of wine on the table. There was enough left for a terrible dose, and then he waited for his wife.

“She was not long in coming. She kissed him and asked him how he felt

AGENTS

Send for lokosrmph or FKEE Saleo plan book*

let. Sella on iuveatment.

Writee with ink siDootb aa a lead pencil «n cheapest or fineet paper, without mias. skip or blur. Won’t blot, ecmtch or leak.

Makes 3 carbon copies atone time wHh * original in ink. Anyone can use your lnko« CTaph — hard pressure ciuinot spre^ or injure

Its 14 Kt. ffoid point. Patent automsti^ecd

p ~ I prevents point from clog^ioir. No com*

{THAT BALL- tnechanisra. Beat auttc^la aa4

I ■ trw workmanship. Fully Goarsnteed.

Send No Money. Pay pnatman $1.60 pin VGOLD POINTj^ postaare. Sent prepaid If remittsnoe aeconpaa* ■ >•* order. Honeyback if disHatiHfiedin 10 days INKOCKAPH eg Inc centre St., NmeVorti city

Do you want to bo

ATTRACTIVE?

If so, we can help you.

Scud liame and address at once for free literature.

THE BEOTHEEHOOD OP LIGHT

Dept. 0, Box 1525, Los Angeles, Cal.

ASTKOnOGY— I.KAK\ WHAT TUK STAKS predict for 1930. Will you bo lucky? Will you win in love? Will your investments prove profitable? Would a change in occupation give you a larger salary? Our Special 15-Page Astrological Reading gives predictions — mouth by month— with exact days, dates and happenings for 1930 based on your Sign of the Zodiac. Consult it before making any change in home or business affairs, signing papers, love, courtship, mari’iage, employment, travel, speculation, health, accidents, “lucky days,** etc. Send exact birthdate with tl.00 for complete reading. Franklin Publishing. Company, 800 North Clark Street, Dept. 32(5, Chicago.

Explains roanT myatlfying tricks with coins, cards, handkeTchiefs, etc., yon can do. Also contains complete catalog of Magic Tricks, Jokes, Puzzles. Escapes, Curioa, and Imported Novelties from many Foreign lands. Large assortment, Inwest prices. You will amaze and mystify your friends! Send 10c today.

LYLE DOUGLAGy

Station A-6 Dallae, Toxa*

Gj^Ls Earn Xmas Money

Write for 50 Sets Nicholas, C'hriNtmaa Heals. Sell for. lOo a set. When sold send us S.'l.OO and keep $15.00. Ko Work— Fun. RT. NICHOUliS 8KAL €<>., Dept. 410-W. T., Brooklyn, K. T.

Or Snufp habit! 11 liPalLUJ Cured Ob No Pmr|

■ fiaim dgan, dgaratte,, sni^ jiipe, cfaewmg. FuH twatment M a on trial Harmlew. Costa $l-£0 if cured, nothing if it faila. Ovar ■ I eOOJOOO hrsatnanli uaad. SUPERSA CO nT-n, BHthnore, Md. I

SONG POKM WKITKKS— “KBAI," PKOP081. tion. Hibbeler, D-156, 2101 X. Keystone,

Chicago.



tliis moi-uing. He replied tliat he felt much better, but that the fever had not completely left liim and that he was thirsty.

“ ‘Tlien you must drink something, darling, ’ she said.

“lie did not wait for her to pour the wine out and filled two glasses himself.

“ ‘But you know that the doctors have forbidden me wine,’ she said, ‘and that I only drink water.’

“He insisted that she drink with him in the same glass, as they had often done. She tumed her head away. He seized her bintally, threw her head back and savagely pinched her nostrils, tlms forcing her to drink. As she cried Avith fear, he spoke. ‘ Perhaps you would have px'eferred another glass,’ he said, and showed her the tali-taJi.

“She cried for help, but suddenly put her hand to her abdomen and Avas taken Avith a horrible cramp. At the same time the pain clutched at him, and they fell together on the sofa. They shrieked together, agonized together, clutched and scratched, and bit each other. They pulled at each other like Avild beasts. They tAvisted and Avrithed, contorting themselves in the same hell.

“ Jacobini had still strength enough to insult her, naming the first victims. ‘You won’t kill any moi'e. You ai'e going to die. You are going to die Avith me.’

“But the pain Avas too great. It seemed as though there was hell Avithin him. He pulled AA^eapons doAAni from the Avails, and he tried to stab himself Avith a knife and so end the horror at one blow; but he only succeeded in making a terrible woimd. Then he txirncd the steel toward Olympe and slit her open from top to bottom like an animal. The room echoed Avith her last hoAvl.

“Possessed by a thousand demons he smashed her skull, pierced her like a pin-cushion, pulled out her eyes and cut her into pieces. She Avas. nothing

STATEMENT OP THE OWNERSHIP, MANAGEMENT, CIRCULATION, BTC., REOUniED BY THE ACT OF CONGRESS OF AUGUST 24, 1912,

Of Weird Tales, published monthly at Indianapolis, Indlan.a, for October 1, 1929.

State of Illinois 1 County of Cook J “•

Before me, a notary public in and for the State and county aforesaid, personally appeared Wm. R. Spreneer, tvho, having been duly sworn according to law. deposes and says that he is the Business Manager of the Weird Tales and that the following is, to the best of his knowledge and belief, a true statement of the ownership, management (and if a dally paper, the circulation), etc., of the aforesaid publication for the date shown in the above caption required by the Art of August 24, 1912, embodied in section 411, Postal Laws and Regulations, printed on the reverse of this foi-m, to wit:

1. That the names and addresses of the publisher, editor, managing editor, and business manager are:

Publisher — Popular Fiction Publishing Company, 2457 E. Washington St., Indianapolis, Ind.

Editor — Farnsworth AVright, 840 N. Michigan Avc., (ihicago. III.

Managing Editor — None.

Business Manager — William It. Sprenger, 840 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago, III.

2. That the owner is: (If owned by a corporation, its name and aildrcss must bo stated and also immediately thereunder the names and addresses of stockholders owning or holding one per cent or more of total amount of stock. If not owned by a corporation, the names and addresses of the individual owners must be given. If owned by a firm, company, or other unincorporated concern, its name and address, as well as those of each individual member must be given.)

Popular Fiction Publishing Company, 2467 B. Washington St., Indianapolis, Ind.

Wm. R. Sprenger, 840 N. Michigan Aye., Chicago, Illinois.

Parnstvorth AVright, 840 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago, Illinois.

George M. Cornelius, 2467 E. Washington St.. Indianapolis, Indiana.

George H. Cornelius. 2457 E. Washington St., Indianapolis, Indiana.

P. AV. Cornelius. 2457 E. AVashington St., Indianapolis, Indiana.

3. That the known bondholders, mortgagees, and other security holders owning nr holding 1 per cent or more of total amount of bonds, mortgages, or other securities are: (If there are none, so state). None.

4. That the two paragraphs next above, giving the names of the owners, stockholders, and security holders, if any, contain not only the list of stockholders and security holders as they appear upon the books of the company, but also, in cases where the stockholder or security holder appears upon the books of the company as trustee or in any other fiduciary relation, the name of the person or corporation for whom such trustee is acting, is given ; also that the said two paragraphs contain statements embracing affiant’s full knowledge and belief as to the circumstances and conditions under which stockholders and security holders who do not appear upon the books of the company as trustees, hold stock and securities in a capacity other than that of a bona fide owner; and this affiant has no reason to believe that any other person, association, or corporation has any interest, direct or indirect, in the said stock, bonds, or other securities than as so stated by him.

6. That the average number of copies of each issue of this publication sold or distributed, through the malls or otherwise, to paid subscribers during the six months preceding the date shown above is (This information is required from daily ptiblicatlons only.)

WM. R. SPRENGER, Business Manager.

Sworn to and subscribed before mo this 28th day of September, 1929. O. P. EAHLSTROM,

tSEAL] Notary PubUc.

My commission expires July 26, 1932.

WEIED TALES


more than a bleeding, nameless horror when the servants rushed into the room.

‘ ‘ But Jacobini did not die until the next morning and in his few moments of lucidity narrated the hideous details of tlieir abominable martyrdom. Tlie assistant district attorney who at one time had hoped to marry her was present, and he returned home and went to bed ill. During the night he was so delirious that they thought he would lose his mind and so add one more victim to the list.’-

^ iNziN stopped. Perspiration beaded his temples. He let out a sort of groan.

“The most horrible part,” he -went on, “is the fact that she had done nothing. ’ ’

“ Oh ! ” the others exclaimed.

“Yes, she was innocent. I learned tliat the other day, only the other day.”

“Palmire had done it all!” Gaubert exclaimed.

“As to her,” said Zinzin with a terrible laugh, “the police took her and kept her. You can well understand that I did everything in my power to have her given full punishment. All she did was to say no, and to cry about Olympe. Concerning her mistress, however, she gave us explanations which dumfoimded us. They were so utterly stupid or naive. For example, when they asked her: ‘If your mistress w'as innocent, she would not have told her husband that the tali-tali had been destroyed before the two of you. ’

“ ‘Bah, that is simple,’ Palmire answered. ‘We agreed between us to say that it had been because tliere were already rumors about and we did not want to be suspected ; besides we did not know what had become of the tali-tali because we really believed that Monsieur Delphin had burned it all the day that he threw a few drops in to please Madame.’

“Yes, she said just that,” Zinzin

BIG REDUCTIONS

«n U. 8. Goodrich, Goodyear, FireBiene f>nd other urea only ellebtly aa*>d— flue to owrera chuurios to balloons. Thouaeadaof satisfied ens* tomers report treznendoaemHeage.

SEND ONLY Sx.OO

depoatt for each tire wanted— balnac>i C. O. D, State whether dmclier or straint side. Mo rnk in buying f’-om ns. If not aatlsfactory uuon (ieHvnry. retorn then to ns t or refund. ORCSK NOW.

AMERICAN TIRE CO. &329 3. Boulevard

Oept. 889-T» Chicagro

size

TIRES

TUBES

30x3%

32.28

81.00

31x4

3.00

1.15

32x4

3.00

1.16

33x4

3.00

1.16

32x4%

3.25

1.45

33x4%

3.25

1.46

31x4»i

3.60

1.4.',

30x5

3.65

1.76

33x5

3.65

1.75

29x4.40

2.35

1.10

30x5.25

3.00

1.35

30x6.77

3.25

1,40

31x5,26

3.25

1.36

33x6.00

3.25

1.46

32x6.20

3.25

7.46

Olhar Balloon SIe# Tires $3.09

Bladder Irritation

Tf functional Bladder Irritation disturbs your f'lcep, causes Burnin§r or Itching Sensation. .Backache or Leg Painn, making you feel tirod, depressed and discouraged, why not try the C'ystcx 48-Hour Tost? Don’t give up. Get Cystek today at any drug store. Put it to the test. See for yourself what it does. Money back If it doesn’t bring quick improvement and satisfy you completely. Try Cystex today. Only 60c.

YOIi MEN WHO LACK VIGOR TRY THIS TEST AT OIB MSKl

§ § § riyiuYiviLiA Composed of ACTUAL GLAND MATERIALS and stimulative tonic in tablet fmm. Send $2 for a full strength package.

Kbsolnts Sftisiteties 6DAMf!TEEB sr Mmw HifBuleS-yM Takt Is I

2 Packages for $3.00 — also C. O, i CERES CO., D«|rt. wt-8 030 Arch St., Philadelphia, I

Tobacco

Don’t tiT to banish oiutldsd the hold tobseco has npon yon,

Thoussnds of invetsrste tobseco users bsvs, with the sld of the KeelsE Tusmifinr. found It essy to Qolt.

KEELEY TREATMENT FOR TOBACCO HABIT

for over 60 years. Write today for PR KB BOOS oar MONEY BACK GUABANTBE.

KEELEY INSTITUTE, Dapt. E-705. Pwlght. Illinois

I CHALLENGE

you to disprore that I can positively teach you to read frcMH one's eyes only all he wants to say. (This marvelous discovery also works by alphabet as the tongue does.) I held praising letters from police heads, scleotist. colleges, clerics. physicians, etc. Send only 81.00 for the one-page easiest wonderful method. Tou don’t lose; money refunded. A Hmigmao, Station £, Box 85. Sec. W. T. 8-3. Momreal. Canada.



Next Month

The CURSE of the HOUSE of PHIPPS

By SEABURY QUINN

A vmo and startling tale of Colonial times. The story of the weird doom that followed the members of the House of Phipps, striking down each descendant in turn before he had seen, his first-born child. A fascinating narrative of eery happenings and blood-chilling excitement, that begins in a Britisli colony in America and jumps into a hectic thriller of the present day.

I p YOU have not yet made the acquaintance of the fa.sciuatiiig j Frenchman, Jules de Grandin — occultist, scientist, phantom-figlitcr and ghostrbreaker — this powerful story, w’ritten in Seabury Quinn’s most fascinating style, will serve as an introduction to one of the most interesting and likable characters in modem fiction. The story will be printed eomidete in the

January issue of


On Sale December 1st

Clip and Mail this Coupon Today I

WEIRD TAEBS,

840 North Slichigfoa Avo.,

Chicago, 111.

Enclosed find tl lor special five months subscription to '‘Weird Talcs” to begin with the January issue ($1.25 in Canada). Special offer void unless remittance is accompanied by coupon.

Name

AdAress

went on, “and she was hissed and hooted. I cried louder than the rest.”

“And what was she sentenced to?” asked Chaulieu.

“Death,” replied Zinzin in a whisper.

“But they don’t execute women?”

“No. . . . Her .sentence was changed to life imprisonment. She died in her cell about ten years ago. I learned that the other day al.so.”

“And did .she repent? Did she confess?” Michel a.sked.

“Xo,” Zinzin answered, looking at us like a madman, “and she had nothing to confess. . . , She, too, was innocent!’’

“Good God!” Chaulieu exclaimed.

“But then, who was guilty?” Gaubert a.sked.

“A man who has just died and confessed on liis death bed. After the tragedy he left the town and settled not far from here. Ye.s, he died tho other day at ^Mourillon. That man had owned some jiroiieily which touched the edge of Olympe’s estate in the far corner where the pavilion wa.s.”

“•But who was the man? — one of the twelve?”

“Yes, one of the twelve — the twelfth, to be exact! He naturally could not ever hope to marry OljTnpe, because of course she would never go through with eleven hu.sbands after such deaths, but he eliminated those who had been happier than he . . . and at the end he had fixed it .so that the evidence all pointed to Olsunpe.

“Do j^ou I'emember, when tho twelfth suitor arrived that day when we were all lined up in the drawingroom — the arrival of Monsieur Pacifire, the registrar — ^what fun Olympe made of him and how we had all laughed when she placed him at tho foot of the line? Yes, we made fun j of Monsieur Pacifire when he eame I into the room ! Well, he avenged himi self, that man!”

No More Razor Blades

To Buy/

Inventor Discovets Amazing NcwWay to Shave!

-Without Buying Blades!

365 KEEN SHAVES

A Year With One Single Blade

“I want to say that ICRISS KROSS Stropper U the best thing 1 ever saw. 1 have been using tne blade continuously for one year and nine months and have no idea how much longer it will last."

8. Stephenson. Okla.

K een, velvety shaves forever and no more blades to buyt That’s what this astonishing invention offers the great army of American shavers today!

KRISS'KROSS is destined to revolutionize all existing traditions of shaving I its performance is so sensational that it seems hardly fair to call it a stropper. Rather it is a st^per-stropper or bladerejuvenatort No longer do you find that your blades "die" after five or six shaves. KRISS-KROSS "brings 'em to life" a surprising wayl Actually — you can take a blade right out of a fresh package and improve it as much as 100% in eleven seconds with KRISS* KROSS!

MAGIC DIAGONAL STROKE

KRISS-KROSS employs the famous diagonal stroke, same as a master barber uses. Never before has anyone captured the secret of reproducing it automatically. Eight "lucky leather grooves" do the trick In 11 seconds with a precision it takes a master barber years to attain. Strops from heavy to tight. Adjustable, automatic jig flies up and notifies you that your blade is ready — ready with the keenest eutting-edge that steel can take I

KRISS-KROSS produces unbelievable sharpness and prolongs the life of any razor blade for months and even years. Fits all brands and makes except Durhant. Eliminates S3% of shaving costs and solves your blade problem for all time!

SENSATIONAL OFFER

features. Instantly adjustable to any shaving position. A flip of the finger makes It (1) T-Shape; ( 3 ) straight (old style); (3) or ^agonal (new way) . Gives a sliding Instead of pulling stroke. Simply zips right through the toughest crop of whiskers. Made of rustless metal. Comes with 5 special-process blades and is entirely unlfke anything you ever saw before!

GET FREE OFFER

Send for full infoematlon on these surprising new * Inventions today. KRISS-KROSS products are never sold in stores. You deal direct with me or my authorized representative. Write for Illustrated description and full details of free razor offer. It's even more remarkable than 1 can tell you in this short space. Clip the coupon now. Mail it today.

AGENTS

KROSS. Giving away FREE razors boosts your profits amazingly. H. King made 366 in one day. N. C. Paige made |104 In 3 days! Others average $350 and up to 3750 a month! ffparetime workers. Office and Factory men make $6-$12 extra a day showing KRISS-KROSS to friends and fellow employees. S. Kantala made $134 extra just working evenings 3 weeks. Get details at once. Check bottoui of coupon and mail it tonight!

And now for my surprising offer. To introduce KRISS-KROSS, I am giving with it Free a new kind of razor. Possesses remarkable

^kWSS KROSS

CORPORAnON

Dept. H-3783 1418 Pendleton Ave. ST. TOPIS, MO.

Largest Manufacturers of Mechanical Strappers in the World.

Canadian Address:

CANADIAN KRISS-KROSS CO.

39 Wellingrton Street Bast, Toronto S, Canada

I Rhodes' KRISS-KROSS Corporation, Dept. H-3783 |

I 1418 Pendleton Ave., St. Louis, Me. j

I Without obligation, please send me illustrated description and i I full details of your special introductory offer on KRIS8-KR0B8 | 1 super-stropper and FREE 3-way razor. |

I Address |

j Town - State-- -- j

I ( ) Check here If interested In making money as authorized | I KRISS-KROSS representative. 1

J^UlL NEVER KNOW LIFE

Until You've Read the Greatest of All Forbidden Books!

Y oiru^ imcr know the tremendous force of human passions until you’ve feasted, on the most thrilling Tales from that greatest of all true-to-Hfe books the immortal Decameron! . . . Here are the frankest tales of love and intriprue i-ver set down on paper. Written in an age of plain speaking they show us how real de.sh>andblood men and wom«*n act in time of stress — the deep secret motives that influence our actions toilay no less than they did centuries ago.

And now for a short time only you can inspect these great examples of realistic writing — the stories which you have always longed to rea<l — in your own home for^ five da>'s. without obligation! Road all about this surprising offer, then send for your copy at once.

AMAZING .... INSPIRING

For centuries the Decameron has thrilled milPons- has inspired countless great authors — has been lauded by the moat discriminating critics. Rich in fascinating plots, vibrant with all the jiassions of a warm-bloode<l rac^-. it has furnished plots for the world’s great masters of literature- -Shakespeare. Chaucer, Keats. Tennyson. Dryden and Longfellow. No one can know literatuiv, can call himself truly sojjhisticated, until hi* has drunk from the bottomless loving cup of that genial old Italian. Giovanni Boccaccio. . . . And far from being immoral a.s many narrow rainde'd i>eopIe used to think. thes»- Tales from the Decameron are in reality almost a text book for the earnest student of that gr*-ntest of all studie.s — human nature.

Boccaccio’s stories have already livid five times as long as our United States. They were the "best sellers'* when Broadway was still a w’ilderni'ss and yet today they still delight us with their immortal vitality, forever young, forever gay, forever thrilling.

The morals and customs of Italy of th<* fourteenth century are all laid before you -the way peoph- lived, thihovels and palaces they dwelt in, the .strange pleasures they indulged in — all are told with a wit and i)athos that never crept between the covers of any other book. Thus the stories not only amuse and entertain, which afU'r all is the first requirement of good fiction, but they give us

the history of manners and morals of a long passed age. They constitute a landmark of literature, which must not ix? passed over, if you would broaden your vision — make yourself truly cultured.

SEND NO MONEY 5 DAY TRIAL

And now we are enabli-d to offer you three great classics -thirty-five of tht best stories from the famous Decameron for the amazingly low sum of only SI. 98. Send no money just fill out and mail the coupon below. When the package arrives pay the postman S1.98 plus few cents postage. Inspect this great book for five days, then if you are not delighted return it and your m«)nty will be refund(*<l. Mail the coupon this instant before this low price offer is withdrawn! Franklin Publishing Co.. 800 N, (’lark St.. Dept.W-SlO, Chicago.

( Franklin Publishing 0>., i

8(M> N. Clark SU. Dept. C-610. |

I Chicago. I

- Please St ml me a copy of The Tales from the i I iinmoi'tal Decameron by Boccaccio, Whm packiige I arrives I will- pay postman only $1.08 plus few • I cents postage. I.’ not delighted. I am at libiTty to I . return the volume within five days and my money I Will be rt fumled. I

I Name I

I Address I

I City State I

I lf you may be out when tht postman calls, en- ■ close $2 with this coupon and we will pay all di»- I

I livery charges. Customers outside U. S. must send | cash with order. I

[THE END]
