============================================================
Weird Tales
Volume 13, Number 2
Date: February 1929
============================================================
============================================================
TABLE OF CONTENTS

  1. "“Melodie in E Minor” August W" by Derleth
  2. "Crete Robert E" by Howard
============================================================
============================================================
“MELODIE IN E MINOR” AUGUST W
by Derleth
============================================================
I'pon his fallen kingdoms, God had died.

A Five-Mi?iute Ghost Story

“MELODIE IN E MINOR”

By AUGUST W. DERLETH

THERE is a certain section of St. Louis that gives one nausea to go through. There is a perpetual cloud of smoke above the section, a cloud which no one seems to mind, not even the people who ivalk about below it with soot-streaked faces. Once in a while, on a clear night, the smoke disappears, only to appear in a much denser form the following morning. A heavy rain drives the smoke away for a Avhile, but it is sure to come back when the rain stops. A stench that seems alive creeps from one dim alley to another, gathering strength as it goes. This, too, the people do not mind. Dirty children play in the midst of it; they go home reeking with it. But what difference does it make? Their homes reek with it.

There are more Ilian two hundred houses in this section, and each house is just like all the others. Thus, each house might have belonged to Jack Hammond, except for one little difference: In Hammond's house the noise started exactly at (i o’clock in the evening, and ended exactly at 6 o’clock in the morning, when both Jack and Amy went to work.

When Amy married Jack Hammond he had “prospects”, but, somehow, he lost them, and Amy never forgave him for it. When they moved to this squalid section, it was to be temporary. But it had become permanent; Amy would not forgive Jack, either for this or for making her go to work shortly after their marriage.

Amy made life miserable for Jack in all ways, but especially at the supper table. She had taken a fancy to a piece by Rachmaninoff that she had once heard in a recital, Melodic in E Minor. She bought 1 lie piece and learned it note for note, until she was able 1o play it after a fashion. Every night while Jack ate his supper she played it. At first Jack didn’t want to say anything about it, though he hated that kind of music, and Amy knew it. Invariably he began to hum ST. Louis Blurs when Amy started to play, lint Amy soon drowned him out. Cursing did Amy no harm, nor did his threats. The situation showed no sign of progressing either for better or for worse.

At 6 o’clock in the evening the program opened, somewhat like this:

“Supper ready?” from Jack, to Amy’s young brother, who stayed at home and did the cooking for the two workers.

Amy would throw down her bag and hat, and move toward the door of the parlor. It was called a parlor only because of the piano in it. “I’m not hungry; guess I’ll play the piano for a while.”

At this juncture Amy’s brother vacated.

“Listen, Amy (this from Jack): if you think you’re going to play that thing again, you got another guess coming. And if you play that E Minor thing, I’ll ”

“Shut up, Jack. Why'd I ever



marry a fool like you? Got no appreciation of good music, and never will have. Haven’t even got a little horse sense.”

“Shut up, damn you. I got just as good an education as you, Amy Hammond. Amy! If you play that piano, you’ll go to work with a black eye tomorrow. ’ ’

“Oh! I will, huh? And you’ll never see your little Amy any more.”

“No such luck, Amy; you know when you got it good, and you’d soon be back. Damn you! what d’you have to play that piece again for? You know I don't like it. I’nx going to sell that damned piano! ’ ’

‘ ‘ Who ’s going to buy it? ”

“Amy! By God, some day I’m going to break that damn’ neck of yours.”

“Yeh? What about funeral expenses; where you going to get ’em? And what about your own neck?”

“My neck’s all right; you just watch out for yours. ”

“Aw, sign off. Jack. Be yourself. Go out and get an education.”

“Damn you, Amy! Some day ”

“Yeh! Some day you’ll break my neck; that’s ancient history, Jack.”

“Well, damn you, some day I will.”

“ Oh! yeh! yell*! Of course! ’ ’

O ne night Amy’s brother Jim set the supper table as usual, and went, out for a package of cigarettes. When he came back he found Jack home, surly as always, with an expression on his face that scared Amy’s brother.

‘ ‘ Where ’s Amy, Jack? ”

“She ain’t home yet, Jim. Ain’t seen her on the wav, have you?” “No.”

“Where in thunder is she,, then? She ought to be home by now. ’ ’

“ Yeh! She ought to. ’ ’

Jack sat down and began to eat his

supper. From time to time he glanced nervously at the door.

“What in hell’s keeping that woman? Sure she isn’t home?”

‘ ‘ She didn ’t come in. ’ ’

Jack kept on eating. Suddenly the staccato notes of Rachmaninoff ’s Melodic in E Minor came to the ears of the two men in the kitchen. Jack dropped his fork with a curse, and looked at Amy’s brother. Cowed, the youth shrank into a corner. But curiously, Jack’s glance was not of anger, and Amy ’s brother picked up courage.

“ It ’s Amy, J ack. She ’s come in by the winder.”

‘ ‘ My God! Do you hear the piano, Jim?”

“Sure. It’s Amy.”

Jack got up from the table slowly. His hands hung limply by his side; his face twitched spasmodically.

‘ ‘ Don ’t hurt her, J ack. Don ’t hurt her, please.”

Jack Hammond did not notice the youth in the comer. For a second he stood before the parlor door. Then he turned to Amy’s brother.

“Call Amy, Jim.”

“Amy! Amy!” The youth stuck his head into the parlor. “She don’t answer, Jack. I can’t see very well; it ’s kinda dark in there. ’ ’ He turned and looked at Jack curiously. “Maybe it ain’t Amy; huh, Jack?”

With a stifled sound Jack Hammond sank back into a chair. “No! No! My God! It ain’t Amy! It can ’t be Amy! No! It ain ’t! ”

He rose a second time and moved jerkily toward the parlor door. The piece ended abruptly, then began over again.

Something like a sob escaped Jack. “My God! I killed Amy just befoi’e — she started playing again — that damned piece! It ain’t Amy. I killed her! ’ ’

Without a sound he pitched forward and lay in a crumpled heap on the floor.

THERE is a stage known as ‘‘Fool’s Paradise” in the course of acute appendicitis, and this stage Brown had reached. It is caused by the relaxation of tortured nerves incident to the relief occasioned by the bursting of a distended appendix, and is not in itself an encouraging symptom; but the corresponding mental relief, after the preoccupation of pain and nausea, made it easy for Brown’s anticipations of the new experience to be wildly exciting. Taking an anesthetic — well, the patient with the soundest heart sometimes fails to come back. Being sliced with a surgeon’s knife, and returning to consciousness with

a deep wound — that, too, is a thing to make the pulses throb with the effort of meeting the issue without panic.

However, when the doctors asked him if he had any objection to the use of a new gas called ethysene, his curiosity was slight.

‘‘I don’t want to be experimented on,” he told them, ‘‘but if it will keep me from feeling you slice me, and if it’s all right on the heart, go ahead. I suppose you fellows know all those things well enough, or you wouldn't be planning to use it on me.”

‘‘We know those things,” he was assured. “We’ve used this gas in this hospital. It is highly desirable to use




it, because of the very things you mention. Shock is slight, heart action good, the physical condition fine. But ”

“Here’s the dope, Brown,” interrupted the house doctor. “We gave ethysene to a man named Hallam, who had a tonsillectomy here. All right. He took it well, and rallied well. Only, when he had regained consciousness, he insisted that the new gas had an effect on the soul, and that it had sent his to heaven. He liked it so well in heaven, that after he got out and about, he took gas again — illuminating-gas, in his room, with the keyhole plugged and that sort of thing, you know — in order to go back to heaven again. I guess he succeeded — at least he died. ’ ’

Brown laughed.

“Well, I’m pretty well satisfied that my family tree goes back to a fine, hairy ape. I guess that answers your question. Unless, of course, the gas had the effect of making him loco. Do you mean he’s the only patient here who ever took ethysene, and that I would be the second?”

“Oh, no, no!” The surgeon and house doctor answered together, and the house doctor continued:

“Three cases — names were Newton, Meredith and Ctfnby- — we’ve been offering it pretty freely, though most of our patients want the old-fashioned stuff. Newton, Meredith and Canby, they all three had ethysene inside the last, month. Well, none of them went to heaven. So, now, what do you

*ay?”

“Oh, make it ethysene, by all means,” said Brown. “I sav, let’s get it over. Let’s go.”

Brown had had a reason for asking to be taken to Franklin Hospital. His sweetheart, Dorothy Wood, a pretty girl with gray eyes and dark auburn hair, was a student nurse there. While Brown was being prepared for the operating-room, a coarse hospital gown buttoned at his neck, coarse white wrappings fastened

over his feet and legs, and a hypodermic needle jabbed into his arm, the girl hovered in the corridor outside his door. When they wheeled him into the hall, his brain hazy from the injected opiate, she met his gaze with a tendei', tremulous smile. It raised Brown’s spirits, and the effect of the morphine was to make him light-headed.

“Tell you all about heaven when 1 get back, Dorothy,” he called, as they wheeled him toward the elevator.

For a moment the girl named Dorothy stood motionless, unconscious of sympathetic glances from two other nurses and a young intern who stood near by. All at once she started forward.

“Did he mean — are they going to give him that ethysene gas?” she asked the young intern.

“Yes, but that’s all right. Don’t worry, Miss Wood,” he consoled her. “There was only that fellow, Hallam. They’ve used it since, and it’s perfectly fine. Hallam was crazy. ’ ’

“But it might — it might affect the soul. ’ ’

The intern raised his eyebrows.

“Well, if Brown goes to heaven, he'll come back, as poor Hallam said that he did. And then 1 guess you can keep him here, can’t you. Miss Wood?”

He chuckled and went off down the corridor.

B rown lay fiat on his back, his face encased in an air-tight mask. There were isinglass eye-holes, through which he looked. Through a tube in front of his month and nose, the anesthetic was being pumped in. TIis heart beat hard, with the excitement and fear that were overmastering him at last. He wanted to kick and struggle, but be would not let himself do that. He would breathe deeply, and got it over.

“Let’s go — let’s go,” lie muttered inside the mask.



His lungs burned as he inhaled deeply. Little pains like knives shot, through them. Bui his effort to cooperate was having an effect. His heart did not pound now. He felt weak — yes, faint. He was going. At every pump stroke, the white faces he now saw dimly through the isinglass dissolved into white mist. Between strokes they became faces again, but each time more featureless, more indistinct. Somebody spoke to him.

“Lift your hand. Can you lift your hand?”

They must not think he was unconscious. He lifted his hand with an effort.

Now everything was a white mist. He was floating

“Again. Lift your hand.”

Brown made a supreme effort. He willed to lift his whole arm — to lift it high. For he was not unconscious, but they would think so. The world was unreal about him — he could not see; he could hardly hear — but he was intensely conscious, and they must not begin to cut. He directed the whole force of his will, of his consciousness, into the lifting of his arm — -and somehow knew that he had raised one finger, just a little.

He was floating — going away. Up hi the upper right-hand corner of the room, he felt that he stopped. Somehow, he felt that he stopped there, although he was adrift in a mist through which ho could not see. Anxiety held him there for a moment. A little way down there was the table, and what was going on there was of vital importance. Yet he could not hold himself near. He was adrift, and going far and fast.

He was dizzy with rushing through space — dizzy with not seeing, with not feeling anything to lay hold on, with having nothing to orient himself by. lie was desperate. He clutched with his hands.

And suddenly, both hands were caught in a film grip. The relief he felt measured the horror that had

been engulfing him. He felt his feet on something solid, and saw the mist thinning around him. Only a little, for lie could not see far in any direction. But he could see. now, that he stood, not by one person, but between two men, and each had one of his hands.

He blinked his eyes, looking from one to the other. Both of them resembled him! Not exactly. There were differences of expression. And they did not dress as he did, nor wear their hair just as he did — Brown's hair was very sleek and flat on his head, unless his progress through space had changed that. But they looked sufficiently like him to make the coincidence a strange one, and to give him a strange sensation as he regarded them.

One spoke to Brown, lie. Brown at once decided, was the more attractive of the two, the more desirable version of himself, if they did resemble him as much as he thought. As he looked longer at their faces, differences between themselves and him, between each of them and the other, became apparent. This one who spoke now was shrewder, keenerlooking, more clever and snappy, a good businessman type, according to Brown's standard.

“I came to offer you convoy,” he said in a voice that matched well with his appearance. “The trails here aren’t well marked, unless you know how to see them. I will be very glad to take you with me, and keep you with me while you stay. You’re the kind of man we want where I come from. We’ve watched you on earth. You are the surviving type, the type of man who gets ahead, as you say there. The same qualities are just as desirable where I reside as they are on earth. We saw you when you earned your last raise from your firm, and you’re the kind of man we want.”

Brown felt a warm glow pervade what he supposed was his astral body.



Then lie had a surviving part, yes — a soul! And what, you did on earth counted after you went out — went on •and on with you. That was good. He was a surviving type. That was putting it neatly. And Nietsche's philosophy, which had always appealed to him, because he had always I'clt that way about himself, wasn't so badly received in the next world as the old-fashioned moralists liked to think it would be.

But at this point his thoughts were interrupted by the other man, who still held his right hand.

“I came to offer my convoy, too," he said. “But I'll tell you frankly that you’ll have to change a good bit if you want 1o get along, if you go with me. 1 know a good deal about you, too, Brown. I know about the 'raise’ you earned recently — you misrepresented the work of a good man and kept him from getting the salary of the work he was doing. So. because you cut down the salary roll, you managed to get yourself a good whack-off. That’s the truth about the way you earned that raise, isn't it? ”

Brown looked at the speaker and disliked him. It wasn't only what lie said. He was a type Brown hated, a type lie had once feared he bad. it in him to be. lie had standardized himself now, and his personality was nothing but an asset; but when he was a boy he had come very near to turning into an impractical, dreamer sort of fellow, the sort people accused of having too many ideals. A person who looked like this one who was speaking to him, and as Brown had once been afraid he would look, would be capable of.just this sort of judgment and this lack of tact.

Brown laughed a little lightheadedly, as if the morphine which had been shot into his corporeal body had slightly affected his astral one.

“It seems to me that we have more in common,” he replied to the last speaker, indicating the other with an

inclination of his head. “So I guess I will choose accordingly. I’m quite as much obliged.”

A second more, and the undesired guide had disappeared.

T T k was rushing along again, but in A A a definite, directed manner. The floating, whirling sensation, and the feeling of being loosed from the chains of gravity and horribly lost without them, were gone. And again, his feet found foothold, and they were walking hand in hand. A door seemed to open before them. A close passageway engulfed them, and the way seemed too narrow. Then it widened out, and they stood together, he and his guide, in a strange place, in

“Hell!" Brown screamed horribly, and struggled with his guide. “Let me go. Let me go back! You didn’t tell me that was what 1 was deciding. My God! Dive me a chance! I didn’t know. I didn't want to go to hell!”

A eltorus of laughter greeted his ravings.

“The only myth is that there are myths.

Somewhere, Brown had read that. It flashed across his mind, now, even in his first panic. It meant that back of every myth, every legend, every superstition, was somewhere — a fact. And sometimes, at least, that was true. The references to hell that Brown had read in the Bible as a child — the ravings of itinerant preachers — the majestic, dreadful imaginings of Milton

— Shakespeare He thought of

Lady Macbeth’s words: “My lord, hell is murky." It was.

It was as though the light was of low vibration in quality, just over the line from heat. And it was hot. Just endurable enough, as to excess heat, so that it could be endured, so that one, kept there long enough, would wish it were not endurable, so that there might be an end. Also, there were swooping shadows and darting reflections of great, lurid flames, so



that Brown felt that the worst was as yet beyond his imagining. It was no modified Hades, but the oldfashioned hell that, on earth, has become more a joke than a legend. But here, it was no joke.

And yet, none of this was what made the place so horrible that Brown screamed and raved and struggled, and would rather have died than come through the door and the narrow passage, if he had known. It was the Things in the place — Things to which not the Bible, the itinerant preachers, Milton, Shakespeare nor any of the others had done justice. Deformed monstrosities — there were too many of them. If one of them ever lived in any form approaching the present one, it would have been hard for it not to merit hell. And probably many of them had grown, here, progressively worse for a long, long time, so that their like could never have been seen on earth.

But there were human things, and things that had changed from humanity, so that Brown was not sure. There was a man with a hideous, mad face carrying the dead body of a woman, and beating it constantly over the head.

“That man killed his wife,” Brown heard in his ear. “So his punishment, partly, is to carry her so, through all eternity, beating her like that, as he did when he killed her. A century from now, as you count, you won ’1 recognize either one of them; they will have become so much worse. ’ ’

“But she — she was his victim. Why does she stay here?”

Brown’s teeth chattered. Bui his curiosity was awakening.

“She — oh, she deserved to be killed, you see. She got what was coming to her. So, here they both are. ’ ’

The speaker, standing somewhere behind Brown, broke off in a peal of the wild, echoing laughter that

seemed to greet everything of a horrible or distressful nature. Brown was reminded of an insane asylum he had once visited.

Another figure caught his eye — a man who must have come lately, for there was a natural, human look about him that warmed Brown's trembling heart. But — lie had strapped to him, somehow, a coil of tubing that ended in an ordinary gas jet just in front of his nostrils, so that he seemed constantly in the throes of suffocation and disgust at the smell of fumes which issued from the jet. like ordinary illuminating-gas from a gas light. The unfortunate creature kept trying to turn his head away, but the jet with the nauseating fumes turned with him.

“I knew of someone — I heard of someone lately ” began Brown.

“Yes. Hallam. That’s Ilallam.” The unseen voice resumed explanations. “You sec he killed himself, to get to heaven. But there’s an old, old law against that. So he was sent here, because he was a suicide, llis punishment, partly, is to go on enduring the pain, sickness, disgust and regret that lie felt just before he passed out. They expect to go through that stage. But they don’t know that they go right on going through it, until it’s too late.”

Brown turned quickly. He could not bear to hear again that laugh, which he was sure was about 1o follow these words. And, having turned, he encountered a look which made the laugh unnecessary — a look that in itself made a mock of all decent feeling, pity and sympathy. And the look was on the unspeakably evil face and out of the unspeakably evil eyes of a gentleman in red, with a horn in the center of his forehead and one cloven hoof where his right foot should be.

“The only myth is that there are myths,” thought Brown again; and suddenly became aware that the place was full of smaller, subservient262


appearing beings, decorated each with one horn and a single cloven hoof.

“But. ”

The Devil interrupted his halfformed thought.

“They do exaggerate things,” he sneered. “One horn is enough, and one hoof is enough, and one of each is easier to disguise than two when we go to earth, as some of us do. I do, quite often. Some of our information on your case, I gathered myself. You don’t amount to much, but you have some very nasty tendencies. You haven’t had much chance. Your environment nearly turned you into a good man, but you ’re our own sort. You might go a long way with us, if you try to fit in with our ways. So, what do you say!”

The question had a familiar ring, like an echo.

“I say, let’s go.” Brown was quoting himself, but he was not quite sure just when he had said that recently before. “I say, it’s a hard life, and I’ll try to make the best of it,” he enlarged.

“That’s good,” said the Devil, giving him a violent blow on the forehead with something hard and sharp. “We all wear those.”

Those were the horns. Brown, dizzy with pain, had put up his hand and felt a distinct bump springing up on his forehead. It would not be a very well-defined horn, but he was marked. Still dizzy with pain and shock, suddenly he was seized again with panic. He wanted to die. But souls did not die. An awful despair settled down on him, so that he hardly listened to what was being said to him.

“There’s a real reason for that,” he finally caught. “Your astral and physical bodies are still connected, and that blow has an effect on your brain cells as well. When you go back, you will be surprized at yourself. You will be quite a different sort of person. And you will be able to confer distinguishing marks on

people who are near and dear to you, and who love you, now and then. Oh, yes, many — very many — of the old legends have foundations. But you won’t exactly love those who are near and dear to you, after you go back. You will — well, you will see. However, you’ll keep our patents of nobility. ’ ’

Brown felt of his head again. It was less painful. Pondering over the Devil’s last words, he looked at the Devil’s cloven hoof.

“A token like that would be embarrassing on earth,” he suggested.

“You cgn’t be too particular,” retorted the Devil.

He signed to Brown’s guide, whom Brown had forgotten.

‘ ‘ Take him back — for the present, ’ ’ he said shortly.

Brown was hurried toward the narrow passageway. At its entrance he held back, curiosity once more dominant.

“Newton, Meredith, and Canby, who took ethysene — did they come here and go back to earth? Or did they go to heaven?”

The Devil burst into a paroxysm of laughter. He was hideous when he laughed, and more evil than at any other time.

“That brings us to one of the best jokes of the ages,” he finally gasped. “While people on earth are quarreling over the question of evolution, it seems impossible that not one of them has even guessed at the truth of the matter. What’s the matter with their brains? They were supposed to have been endowed with good brains, through evolution and one thing and another. But speaking of evolution — you know, their bodies evolved from the ape. Oh, yes! But a dual race developed. One branch was endowed with a soul, with individual souls, you how — it w r as done with the best of intentions. Ha! Ha! The other branch dies as dead as a dog or cat. Naturally, ethysene would not affect members of that



branch. Newton, Meredith and Oanby all belonged to that family, see? You and Ilallam belong to the other branch, having souls — and here you both are. Pretty good batting average for hell, is it not?

“If they guessed it on earth, all the savants would be laying claims to personal souls, instead of disclaiming their existence. But the cream of the joke is, that while many who are sure they have souls have them, and many who are sure they have none, have none — just as many are sure they have souls and then die like their ape forefathers, and as many who are sine they have none find out, too late, that they have!

“Complicated, but good. Think it over. ’ ’

Brown, pushed into the smothering, close passageway, was thinking. It was a good joke, although it was on him too.

npiiKY said that Brown came out of the anesthetic in fine shape, but he could not agree with. them. He was utterly miserable, if that was being in fine shape, lie was burning and cold, as though he had been chilled by some wind between the worlds of consciousness, and scorched by a hot, unhealthful vapor.

People seemed to have changed in their attitude toward him, and he toward them. He had been a hospital favorite; now, one would hardly call him that. He was strangely sensitive about one of his feet— the right one. He moved it as though it were stiff, or injured, or in pain, although it. was none of these things. Tie felt as though, when he walked again, he would walk with a halt. Perhaps it had something to do with the appendicitis, which had sent stabs of pain shooting down his right leg before the operation; or perhaps it had something to do with — something he had dreamed.

Another thing which he tried not to think of was the discolored contusion which he wore down from the operating-room. There were comments about that, and dismay. Some carelessness must be responsible for it, carelessness in moving him, or in handling him. But when the house doctor tried to tell him how sorry he was that it should have happened, Brown taught him not to discuss the personal appearance of his patients, by unleashing upon him a devil of a temper that he did not remember ever having displayed before in his life.

It developed, during Brown's convalescence, that the nurse Dorothy Wood was more deeply smitten with him than he had known — a phenomenon which, before his operation, he would have hailed with almost incredulous delight. As it was, the childish little nurse was the only thing about the hospital which amused him. It amused him to lead her on to talk tenderly to him, to show her anxiety for him, to show the depth of the fears she had felt while he lay unconscious. It amused him to see that she had thought he loved her, in that time which lay behind his recent illness; that she had thought, even, that he wanted to marry her some day. If he had ever hinted at such a thing, it struck him now as the essence of supreme humor. He, Brown, wasn’t going to marry for love and a pretty face; he was going to climb higher in the future than he had ever climbed. He knew a girl lie could marry. He hadn’t liked her over well, in the past, but if he hadn’t meant to marry her and her bank account he must have been “light” in the head. Tt was the thing to do; such chances didn’t come every day. As for Dorothy, and pretty little nobodies like her who dreamed of catching a successful man with nothing to offer but love, they would do to play with.

It was fun to make her break hospital regulations, and slip into his room from her ward duty, and stay



for long talks that would have gotten her discharged any time the head nurse happened in. When they put her on night duty, it was funnier still, because her discharge would have been even more certain, then, and because she was so forgetful of herself in her childish feeling for him.

At last, one night when he had progressed a long way hack toward health and strength, he drew her head down to his pillow, and kissed her squarely on the lips. It was a long kiss; and when it was over, Dorothy slipped swiftly to the floor. Not to her feet — that would have put her too far from him; to her knees, so that their faces were still on a level. Her regard for professional etiquette, which had been deeply rooted in her once, had been able to do so much toward separating them, but it could do no more.

She knelt there, looking at him. And Brown, looking at her transfigured face, felt the laugh freeze on his lips.

It had been fun to play with her, to see how far he could make her go in the breaking of the rigid laws she was bound to obey. It had been fun to see how easily he could get that kiss — the first he had ever had from her. But there was something, now, about her eyes

They were the eyes of a little girl, to whom fairyland has opened. They were the eyes of a very young girl, whose first dream of love has come true. They were the eyes of an angel — of a woman

They made another face rise before Brown’s “mind’s eye’’ — a face like his, which seemed made to answer that new look on Dorothy’s face. A face like his, and yet not quite like his; a face that might belong to a man with a touch of the visionary in him, w r ith a bit of other-worldliness about him that didn’t fit in with the picture of a successful executive, perhaps — a face that might be framed by hair a bit unruly and unheeded,

because its owner’s eyes were on far things.

And then both faces — Dorothy’s face, and that other face of Brown’s fancy — were put out of the foreground by the consciousness that a third face, very real and near, was peering through a crack in the door.

It was the head nurse. It was a face which must have been created especially to be the face of a head nurse.

“I’ve been watching you for some time, Miss Wood,’’ it said triumphantly. “I think you’ll find there isn’t room on our hospital staff for girls of your sort, who are capable of such indiscretions as this. I think you’ll find it hard to get on the staff of another hospital. I have never been so outraged — right under my nose, Miss ”

The head nurse was working herself up.

Dorothy Wood put out her hands, only a little way, in a broken gesture of pleading.

“Oh, please ” she said to

Brown.

It wasn’t clear just what she wanted of him. But she wanted some intervention that only he could give. It. flashed through Brown ’s mind that if he said they were 'engaged, the hospital board might have clemency. It might mean a hard thing in a girl’s life, to be discharged from a nursing staff with a bad character. It wouldn’t hurt him to say that saving thing; even if he never married her, it wouldn’t hurt

But. why should he? What had he to gain by shielding this girl who seemed so sure that he had once been very fond of her, that she hadn’t discerned the change in his nature which he, himself, knew to have taken place. It was all rather funny.

He wanted to laugh. The head nurse’s expression, and Dorothy’s expression. were so very funny, in their solemn assumption that this affair was a thing of great importance to



everybody. It wasn’t important to Brown, and it needn’t be. Say Dorothy Wood was fired tomorrow, and he never saw her again, and the head nurse glared at him until he went home quite well — would he remember the incident a year from now? His was to be a busy life, a life of climbing over other people to the top, which only the fit attained.

He did laugh, flinging out his arms in a sudden passionate enjoyment of the joke, while the two women stared at him, Dorothy still on her knees. In her eyes, something was dying, and something was springing to life. His carelessly outflung hand struck against, her forehead — not very hard — just with the knuckle. He was watching that new look in her eyes — a something hard and reckless, and not in the least, childish; and then he saw the mark that he had made upon the smooth whiteness of her forehead.

Where had he seen one just, like that before? A swelling bruise, a discolored contusion — why, it was very like the one he had worn down from the operating-room — the sight of which stirred those awful memories he had put away from him with such an effort.

He heard his own voice, laughing on. What devil had he heard laugh, somewhere, like that? He thought the word “devil,” as one thinks those epithets, carelessly, expecting to recall the laugh of some malicious practical joker of his acquaintance, but it recalled something more than that:

A.scene of lurid darkness, a blow, a Thing that, laughed, and a promise that he would be able to present certain little tokens to those who loved him

The laugh died in Brown’s throat, and he screamed sharply in anguish:

“Oh, it’s a mistake — a horrible mistake! I never meant ”

The bitter look in Dorothy’s eyes wavered. Her gaze was fixed upon him trustingly, again. She thought he meant to speak up in her behalf, at last.

Once more, for a lleeting instant, he saw’ that, other vision of himself: a man who had kindness written in his face, and not. much thought of self. Like one reaching in the dark for a friendly hand, he felt himself reaching out toward it. It was a face which mightn’t get on — but it was a face which would be strangely out of place in

He touched the bruise on the young nurse’s head with pitiful, tender fingers.

“I didn’t mean to do that,” he said gently. “I didn’t mean to get you into trouble, either. Please don’t report hex' — don’t be hard on her. I came to this hospital because we are sweethearts. We haven’t told anyone of our engagement yet, but that’s why she was so indiscreet, and because I Ve coaxed her to spend a few minutes here, now and then, against the rules. She’s been worried about me, since I’ve been hei’e. You don’t have to repoit her because I’ve been selfish, and she a little foolish, do you, nurse?”

A heaviness seemed to be lifting from the air of the little room. There was a cool, sweet breeze blowing in at the window 7, from some place where there were many flowei's.

The head nui'se smiled.

“If you’ll both have respect for the rules in future, I’ll let this go,” she said. “After all, the hospital owes you something, sir. We don’t often get our patients injiu’ed in haixdliug

“I’ll declai’e, I’m right glad to sec that mark fading from your forehead. It’s odd you’ve bruised Miss Wood’s forehead, in the same place. But hers w’on’t show by tomorrow.”

The Tall Woman

By PEDRO ANTONIO DE ALARCON

“TT OW little we really know, my

I'" I friends; how little we really A A know! ' ’

The speaker was Gabriel, a distinguished civil engineer of the mountain corps. He was seated under a pine-tree, near a spring, on the crest of the Guadarrama. It was only about a league and a half distant from the palace of the Eseurial, on the boundary line of the provinces of Madrid and Segovia. 1 know the place, spring, pine-tree and all, but I have forgotten its name.

“Lot us sit down, V went on Gabriel, “as that is the correct thing to do, and as our program calls for a rest herc-riiere in this pleasant and classic spot, famous for the digestive properties of that spring, and for the many lambs here devoured by our noted teachers, Don Miguel Bosch, Don Maximo Laguna, Don Augustin Pascual, and other illustrious naturalists. Sit down, and 1 will tell you a strange and wonderful story in proof of my thesis, which is, though you call me an obscurantist for it, that supernatural events still occur on Ibis terraqueous globe. I mean events which you can not gel into terms of reason, or science, or philosophy — as those ‘words, words, words,’ in

* Translated from the Spanish.


Hamlet’s phrase, are understood (or arc not understood) today.”

Gabriel was addressing his animated remarks to live persons of different ages. None of them was young, though only one was well along in years. Three of them were, like Gabriel, engineers; the fourth was a painter, and the fifth was a litterateur in a small way. In company with the speaker, who was the youngest, we had all ridden up on hired mules from the Real Sitio de San Lorenzo to spend the day botanizing among the beautiful pine groves of Pequerinos, chasing butterflies with gauze nets, catching rare beetles under the bark of the decayed pines, and eating a cold lunch out of a hamper which we had paid for on shares.

This took place in 1875. It was the height of the summer. I do not remember whether it was Saint James’ day or Saint Louis’; I am inclined to think it was Saint Louis’. Whichever it was, we enjoyed a delicious coolness at that height, and the heart and brain, as well as the stomach, were there in rituch better working order than usual.

When the six friends were seated, Gabriel continued as follows:

“I do not think you will accuse me of being a visionary. Luckily or unTHE TALL WOMAN


luckily, I am, if you will allow me to say so, a man of the modern world. I have no superstition about me, and am as much of a Positivist as the best of them, although I include among the positive data of nature all the mysterious faculties and feelings of the soul. Well, then, apropos of supernatural, or extra-natural, phenomena, listen to what I have seen and heard, although I was not the real hero of the very strange story I am going to relate, and then tell me what explanation of an earthly, physical, or natural sort, however you may name it, can be given of so wonderful an occurrence.

“The case was as follows. But wait! Pour me out a drop, for the skin-bottle must have got cooled off by this time in that bubbling, crystalline spring, located by Providence on this piny crest for the express purpose of cooling a botanist’s wine.


gentlemen, I do not know

’ ’ whether you ever heard of an engineer of the roads corps named Telesforo X; he died in 1860.”

“No; I haven’t.”

“But I have.”

“So have I. He was a young fellow from Andalusia, with a black mustache; he was to have married the Marquis of Moreda’s daughter, but he died of jaundice.”

“The very one,” said Gabriel. “Well, then, my friend Telesforo. six months before his death, was still a most promising young man, as they say nowadays. He was good-loolring, well built, energetic, and had the glory of being the first one in his class to be promoted. He had already gained distinction in the practise of his profession through some fine pieces of work. Several different companies were competing for his services, and many marriageable women were also competing for him. But Telesforo, as you said, was faithful to poor Joaquma Moreda.

“As you know, it turned out that she died suddenly at the baths of Santa Agueda, at the end of the summer of 1859. I was in Pau when I received the sad news of her death, which affected me very much on account of my close friendship with Telesforo. With her I had spoken only once, in the house of her aun.t, the wife of General Lopez, and I certainly thought her bluish pallor a symptom of bad health. But, however that may be, she had a distinguished manner and a great deal of grace, and was, besides, the only daughter of a title, and a title that carried some comfortable thousands with it; so I felt sure my good mathematician would be inconsolable. Consequently, as soon as I was back in Madrid, fifteen or twenty days after his loss, I went to see him very early one morning. He lived in elegant bachelor quarters in Lobo Street —I do not remember the number, but it was near the Carrera de San Jeronimo.

‘ ‘ The young engineer was very melancholy, although calm and apparently master of his grief. He was already at work, even at that hour, laboring with his assistants over some railroad plans or other. He was dresed in deep mourning.

“He greeted me with a long and close embrace, without so much as sighing. Then lue gave some directions to his assistants about the work in hand, and afterward led me to his private office at the farther end of the house. As w r e were on our way there he said, in a sorrowful tone and without glancing at me:

“ ‘I am very glad you have come. Several times I have found myself wishing you were here. A very strange thing has happened to me. Only a. friend such as you are can hear of it without thinking me either a fool or crazy. I want to get an opinion about it as calm and cool as science itself.



“ ‘Sit down,’ he went on when we had reached his office, ‘and do not imagine that I am going to afflict you with a description of the sorrow I am suffering — a sorrow which will last as long as I live. Why should I? You can easily picture it to yourself, little as you know of t rouble. And as for being comforted, I do not wish to be, either now, or later, or ever! What I am going to speak to you about, with the requisite deliberation goingback to the very beginning of the thing, is a horrible and mysterious occurrence, which was an infernal omen of my calamity, and which has distressed me in a frightful manner. ’

“ ‘Go on,’ I replied, sitting down. The fact was, 1 almost repented having entered the house, as I saw the expression of abject fear on my friend ’s face.

“ ‘Listen, then,’ said he, wiping the perspiration from his forehead.


“ ‘ T do not know whether it is due to some inborn fatality of imagination, or to having heard some story or other of the kind with which children are so rashly allowed 1o be frightened, but the fact is, that since my earliest years nothing has caused me so much horror and alarm as a woman alone, in the street, at a late hour of the night. The effect is the same whether I actually encounter her, or simply have an image of her in my mind.

“ ‘You can testify that I was never a coward. I fought a duel once, when I had to, like any other man. Just after I had left the School of Engineers, my workmen in Despenaperros revolted, and I fought them with stick and pistol until I made them submit. All my life long, in Jaen, in Madrid, and elsewhere, I have walked the streets at all hours, alone and unarmed. and if I have chanced to run upon suspicious-looking persons, thieves, or mere sneaking beggars,

they have had to get out oi my way or take to their heels. But if the person turned out to be a solitary woman, standing still or walking, and J was also alone, with no one in sight in any direction — then (laugh if you want to, but believe me) I would be all covered over with goose-flesh: vague fears would assail me; I would think about beings of the other world, about imaginary existences, and about all the superstitious stories which would make me laugh under other circumstances. I would quicken my pace, or else turn back, and would not get over my fright in the least until safe in my own house.

“ ‘Once there I would fall a-laughing, and wool d be ashamed of my crazy fears. The only comfort I had was that nobody knew anything about it. Then I would dispassionately remind myself that I did not believe in goblins, witches, or ghosts, and that I had no reason whatever to be afraid of that wretched woman driven from her home at such an horn* by poverty, or some crime, or accident, to whom I might better have offered help, if she needed it, or given alms. Nevei*- theless, the pitiable scene would be gone over again as often as a similar thing- occurred — and remember that T was twenty-four years old, that I had experienced a great many adventures by night, and yet that J had never had the slightest difficulty of any sort with such solitary women in the streets after midnight. But nothing of what I have so far told you ever came to have any importance, since that irrational fear always left me as soon as I reached home, or saw anyone else in the street, and I would scarcely recall it a few minutes afterward, any more than one would recall a stupid mistake which had no result of any consequence.

“ ‘Things were going on so, when, nearly three years ago (unhappily, I have good reason for knowing the date, it was the night of November 15-16, 1857), I was coming home at

THE TALL

WOMAN


3 in the morning. As you remember, 1 was living then in that little house in Jardines Street, near Mont era Street. I had just come, at that, late hour, a bitter, cold wind blowing at the time, out of a sort of a gamblinghouse — I tell you this, although I know it will surprize you. You know that l am not a gambler. 1 went into the place, deceived by an alleged friend. But Ihe fact was, that as people began to drop in about midnight, coming from receptions or the theater, the play began 1o be very heavy, and one saw the gleam of gold in plenty. Then came bank-bills, and notes of hand. Little by little I was carried away by the feverish and seductive passion, and lost all the money 1 had. I even went away owing a round sum, for which 1 had left my note behind me. in short, 1 ruined myself completely; and but for the legacy that came to me afterward, together with the good jobs T have had, my situation would have been extremely critical and painful.

“ ‘So 1 was going home, I say, at so late an hour that night, numb with the cold, hungry, ashamed, and disgusted as you can imagine, thinking about my sick old father more than about myself. 1 should have to write to him for money, and this would astonish as much as it would grieve him, since he thought me in very easy circumstances. Just before reaching mv street, where it crosses Peligros.Street, as I was walking in front of a newly built house, I perceived something in its doorway. It was a tall, large woman, standing stiff and motionless, as if made of wood. She seemed to be about sixty years old. Her bold and malignant eyes, unshaded by eyelashes, were fixed on mine like two daggers. Her toothless mouth made a horrible grimace at me, meant to be a smile.

“ ‘The very terror or delirium of fear which instantly overcame me gave me somehow a most acute perception, so that I could distinguish at a glance.

in the two seconds it took me to pass by that repugnant vision, the slightest details of her face and dress. Let me see if I can put together my impressions in the way and form in which I received them, as they were engraved incffaceably on my brain in the light of the street-lamp which shone luridly over that ghastly scene. But T am exciting myself too much, though there is reason enough for it, as you will see further on. Don't be concerned, however, for the state of my mind. I am not yet crazy!

“ ‘The first thing which struck me in that woman, as I will call her, was her extreme height and the breadth of her bony shoulders; then, the roundness and fixity of her dry, owlish eyes, the enormous size of her protruding nose, and the great dark cavern of her mouth; finally, her dress, like that of a young woman of Avapies — the new little cotton handkerchief which she wore on her head, tied under her chin, and a diminutive fan which she carried opened in her hand, and with which, in affected modesty, she was covering the middle of her waist.

“ ‘Nothing could be at the same time more ridiculous and more awful. move laughable and more taunting, than that little fan in those huge hands. It seemed like a make-believe scepter in the hands of such an old, hideous and bony giantess. A like effect was produced by the showy percale handkerchief adorning her face by the side of that cutwater nose, hooked and masculine; for a moment T was led to believe (or I was very glad to) that it was a man in disguise.

“ ‘But her cynical glance and harsh smile were those of a hag. of a witch, an enchantress, a Fate, a — T know not what! There wa.s something about her to justify fully the aversion and fright which T had been caused all my life long by women walking alone in the streets at night. One would have said that I had had



a presentiment of that encounter’ from my cradle. One would have said that I was frightened by it instinctively, as every living being fears and divines, and scents and recognizes, its natural enemy before ever being injured by it, before ever having seen it, and solely on hearing its tread.

“ *1 did not dash away in a run when I saw my life’s sphinx. I restrained my impulse to do so, less out of shame and manly pride than out of fear lest my very fright should reveal to her who I was, or should give her wings to follow me, to overtake me — I do not know what. Panic like that dreams of dangers which have neither form nor name.

“ ‘My house was at the opposite end of the long and narrow street, in which I was alone, entirely alone with that mysterious phantom whom I thought able to annihilate me with a word. How should I ever get home? Oh. how anxiously I looked toward that distant Montera Street, broad and well lighted, xvhere there are policemen to be found at all hours! I decided, finally, to get the better of my weakness; to dissemble and hide that wretched fear; not to hasten my pace, but to keep on advancing slowly, even at the cost of years of health.or life, and in this way, little by little, to go on getting nearer to my house, exerting myself to the utmost not to fall fainting on the ground before I reached it.

“ ‘I was walking along in this way — I must have taken about twenty steps after leaving behind me the doorway where the woman with the fan was hidden, when suddenly a horrible idea came to me — horrible, yet very natural nevertheless — the idea that I would look back to see if my enemy was following me. One thing or the other I thought, with the rapidity of a flash of lightning: either my alarm has some foundation or it is madness; if it has any

foundation, this woman will have started after me, will be overtaking me, and there is no hope for me on earth. But if it is madness, a mere supposition, a panic fright like any other, I will convince myself of it in the present instance, and for every case that may occur hereafter, by seeing that that poor old woman has stayed in that doorway to protect herself from the cold, or to wait till the door is opened: and thereupon I can go on to my house in perfect tranquillity, and I shall have cured myself of a fancy that causes me great mortification.

“ ‘This reasoning gone through with, I made an extraordinary effort and turned my head. Ah, Gabriel! Gabriel! how fearful it was! The tall woman had followed me with silent tread, was right over me, almost touching me with her fan. almost leaning her head on my shoulder.

“ ‘Why was she doing it? — why, my Gabriel? Was she a thief? Was she x*eally a man in disguise? Was she some malicious old hag who had seen that I was afraid of her? Was she a specter conjured up by my very cowardice? Was site a mocking fantasm of human self-deception?

“ ‘I could never tell you all I thought in a. single moment. If the truth must be told, I gave a scream and flew away like a child of four years who thinks he sees the Black Man. I did not stop running until I got out into Montera Street. Onee there, my fear left me like, magic, in spite of the fact that that street also was deserted. Then I turned my head to look back to Jardines Street. I could see down its whole length. It was lighted well enough for me to see the tail woman, if she had drawn back in any direction, and, by heaven! I could not see her, standing still, walking, or in any way! However, I was very careful not to go back into that street again. The



wretch, I said to myself, has slunk into some other doorway. But she can ’t move without my seeing her.

“ ‘Just then I saw a policeman coming up Caballero de Gracia Street, and I shouted to him without stirring from my place. I told him that there was a man dressed as a woman in Jardines Street. I directed him to go round by the way of Peligros and Aduana Streets, while I would remain where I was, and in that way the fellow, who was probably a thief or murderer, could not escape us. The policeman did as I said. He went through Aduana Street, and as soon as I saw his lantern coming along Jardines Street I also went up it resolutely..

“ ‘We soon met at about the middle of the block, without either of us having encountered a soul, although we had examined door after door.

“ ‘ “He has got into some house,” said the policeman.

“ ‘ “That must be so,” I replied, opening my door with the fixed purpose of moving to some other street the next day.

“ ‘A few moments later I was in my room; 1 always carried my latchkey. so as not to have to disturb my good Jose. Nevertheless, he was waiting for me that night. My misfortunes of the 15th and 16th of November were not yet ended.

“ ‘ “What has happened?” I asked him. in surprize.

“ ‘ “Major Falcon was here,” he replied, with evident agitation, “waiting for you from 11 till halfpast 2, and told me that, if you came home to sleep, you had better not undress, as he would be back at daybreak.”

“ ‘Those words left me trembling with grief and alarm, as if they had predicted my own death to me. T knew that my beloved father, at his home in Jaen, had been suffering frequent and dangerous attacks of his chronic disease. I had written to my

brothers that, if there should be a sudden and fatal termination of the sickness, they were to telegraph Major Falcon, who would inform me in some suitable way. I had not the slightest doubt, therefore, that my father had died.

“ ‘I sat down in an armchair to wait for the morning and my friend, and, with them, the news of my great misfortune. God only knows what I suffered in those two cruel hours of waiting. All the while, three distinct ideas were inseparably joined in my mind; though they seemed unlike, they took pains, as it were, to keep in a dreadful group: They were: my losses at play, my meeting with the tall woman, and the death of my revered father.

“ ‘Precisely at 6 Major Falcon came into my room, and looked at me in silence. I threw myself into his arms, weeping bitterly, and he exclaimed, caressing me:

“ ‘ “Yes, my dear fellow, weep, weep.” ’


“TV/Ty friend Tclesforo,” Gabriel went on, after having drained another glass of wine, “also rested a moment when he reached this point, and then he proceeded as follows:

“ ‘If my story ended here, perhaps you would not find anything extraordinary or supernatural in it. You would say to me the same thing that men of good judgment said to me at that time: that everyone who has a lively imagination is subject to some impulse of fear or other; that mine came from belated, solitary women, and that the old creature of Jardines Street was only some homeless waif who was going to beg of me when I screamed and ran.

“ ‘For my part, T tried to believe that it was so. I even came to believe it at the end of several months. Still. T would have given years of my



life to be sure that T was not again to encounter the tall woman. Rut. today, I would give every drop of my blood to be able to meet her again.’

“ ‘What fort’

“ ‘To kill her on the spot.’

“ ‘1 do not understand you.’

“ ‘You will understand me when I tell you that I did meet her again, three weeks ago, a few hours before I had the fatal news of my poor •loaquina’s death.’

“ ‘Tell me about it! tell me about it!’

“ ‘There is little more to tell. It, was 5 o’clock in the morning, it was not yet fully light, though the dawn was visible from the streets looking toward the east. The street lamps had just been put out, and the policemen had withdrawn. As 1 was going through Prado Street, so as to get to tin* other end of Lobo Street, the dreadful woman crossed in front of me. She did not look at me, and I thought she had not seen me.

“ ‘She wore the same dress and carried the same fan as three years before. My trepidation and alarm were greater than ever. I ran rapidly across Prado Street as soon as she had passed, although l did not take my eyes off her, so as jo make sure that she did not look back, and, when 1 had reached the other end of Lobo Street, I panted as if 1 had just swum an impetuous stream. Then I pressed on with fresh speed toward home, filled now with gladness rather than fear, lor I thought that the hateful witch had been conquered and shorn of her power, from the very fact that I had been so near her and yet that she a not seen me.

“ ‘But. soon, and when T had almost reached this house, a rush of fear swept over me, in the thought that the crafty old hag had seen and recognized me, that she had made a pretense of not knowing me so as to let me get into Lobo Street, where it was still rather dark, and where she

might set upon me in safety, that she would follow me, that she was already over me.

“ ‘Upon this, I looked around — and there she was! There at my shoulder, almost touching me with her clothes, gazing at me with her horrible little eyes, displaying the gloomy cavern of her mouth, fanning herself in a mocking manner, as if to make fun of my childish alarm.

“ ‘I passed from dread to the most furious anger, to savage and desperate rage. I dashed at the heavy old creature. I flung her against the wall. 1 put my hand to her throat. I felt of her face, her breast, the straggling locks of her gray hair, until I was thoroughly convinced that she was a human being — a woman.

•‘ ‘Meanwhile she had uttered a howl which was hoarse and piercing at the same time. It seemed false and feigned to me, like the hypocritical expression of a fear which she did not really feel. Immediately afterward she exclaimed, making believe cry, though she was not crying, but looking at me with her hyena eyes:

“‘“Why have yon picked a quarrel with me?”

“ ‘This remark increased my fright and weakened my wrath.

“ ‘ “Then you remember,” I cried, “that you have seen me somewhere else.”

“ ‘ “I should say so, my dear,” she replied, mockingly. “Saint Eugene’s night, in Jardines Street, three years ago.”

“ ‘My very marrow was chilled.

“ ‘ “But who are you?” I asked, without letting go of her. “Why do you follow me? What business have you with me?”

“ ‘ “I am a poor weak woman,” she answered, with a devilish leer. “You hate me, and you are afraid of me without any reason. If not, tell me, good sir, why you were so frightened the first time vou saw me.”



u * ‘ ‘ Beeause I have loathed you ever since I was hom. Because you are the evil spirit of my life.”

“ 1 “It seems, then, that you have known me for a long time. Well, look, my son, so have I known you. ’ ’

“ ‘ “You have known me? How long? ’ ’

“ ‘ “Since before you were born! And when I saw you pass by me, three years ago, I said to myself, that’s the one.”

“ ‘ “But what am I to you? What are you to me?”

“ ‘ “The devil!” replied the hag, spitting full in my face, freeing herself from my grasp, and running away with amazing swiftness. She held her skirts higher than her knees, and her feet did not make the slightest noise as they touched the ground.

“ ‘It was madness to try to catch her. Besides, people were already passing through the Carrera de San Jeronimo, and in Prado Street, too. It was broad daylight. The tall woman kept on running, or flying, as far as Huertas Street, which was now lighted up by the sun. There she stopped to look back at me. She waved her closed fan at me once or twice, threateningly, and then disappeared around a comer.

“ ‘Wait a litle longer, Gabriel. Do not yet pronounce judgment in this case, where my life and soul are concerned. Listen to me two minutes longer.

“ ‘When I entered my house I met Colonel Falcon, who had just come to tell me that my Joaquina, my betrothed, all my hope and happiness and joy on earth, had died the day before in Santa Agueda. The unfortunate father had telegraphed Falcon to tell me — me, who should have divined it an hour before, when I' met the evil spirt of my life! Don ’t you understand, now, that I must kill that bom enemy of my happiness, that vile old hag, who is the living mockery of my destiny?

“ ‘But why do I say kill? Is she a woman? Is she a human being? Why have I had a presentiment of her ever since I was born? Why did she recognize me when she first saw me? Why do I never see her except when some great calamity has befallen me? Is she Satan? Is she Death? Is she Life? Is she Antichrist? Who is she? What is she? ’


“ Y will spare you, my dear friends,” continued Gabriel, “the arguments. and remarks which I used to see if I could not calm Telesforo, for they are the same, precisely the same, which you are preparing now to advance to prove that there is nothing supernatural or superhuman in my story. You will even go further; you will say that my friend was half crazy; that he always was so; that, at least, he suffered from that moral disease which some call ‘panic terror,’ and others ‘emotional insanity;’ that, even granting the truth of what I have related about the tall woman, it must all be referred to chance coincidences of dates and events; and, finally, that the poor old creature could also have been crazy, or a thief, or a beggar, or a procuress — as the hero of my story said to himself in a lucid interval.”

“A very proper supposition!” exclaimed Gabriel’s comrades; “that is just what we were going to say.”

“Well, listen a few minutes longer, and you will sec that I was mistaken at the time, as you are mistaken now. The one who unfortunately made no mistake was Telesforo. It is much easier to speak the word ‘insanity’ than to find an explanation for some things that happen on the earth.”

“Speak, speak!”

“I am going to; and this time, as it is the last, I will pick up the thread of my story without first drinking a glass of wine.




“ \ few days after that conversa- -'*• tion with Telesforo I was sent to the province of Albacete in my capacity as engineer of the mountain corps. Not many weeks had passed before I learned, from a contractor for public works, that my unhappy friend had been attacked by a dreadful form of jaundice; it had turned him entirely green, and he reclined in an armchair without working or wishing to see anybody, weeping night and day in inconsolable grief.

"This made me understand why he had not answered my letters. I had to resort to Colonel Falcon as a source of news of him, and all the while the reports kept getting more unfavorable and gloomy.

“After an absence of live months I returned to Madrid the same day that the telegraph brought the news of the battle of Tetuan. I remember it as if it were yesterday. That night 1 bought the indispensable Correspoiuhncia de Espauu, and the first thing 1 read in it was the notice of Telesforo ’s death. His friends were invited to the funeral the following morning.

“You will be sure that I was present. As we arrived at the San Luis cemetery, whither I rode in one of the carriages nearest the hearse, my attention was called to a peasant woman. She was old and very tall. She was laughing sacrilegiously as she saw them taking out the coffin. Then she placed herself in front of the pall-bearers in a triumphant attitude and pointed out to them with a very small fan the passageway they were to take to reach the open and waiting grave.

“At the first glance I perceived, with amazement and alarm, that she was Telesforo ’s implacable enemy. She was just as he had described her to me — with her enormous nose, her devilish eyes, her awful mouth, her percale handkerchief, and that diminutive fan which seemed in her hands

the scepter of indecency and mockery.

“She immediately observed that I was looking at her, and fixed her gaze upon me in a peculiar manner, as if recognizing me, as if letting me know that she recognized me, as if acquainted with the fact that the dead man had told me about the scenes in Jardincs Street and Lobo Street, as if defying me, as if declaring me the inheritor of the hate which she had cherished for my unfortunate friend.

“I confess that at the time my fright was greater than my wonder at those new coincidences and accidents. It seemed evident to me that some supernatural relation, antecedent to earthly life, had existed between the mysterious old woman and Telesforo. But for the time being my sole concern was about my own life, my own soul, my own happiness —all of which would be exposed to the greatest peril if T should really inherit such a curse.

“The tall woman began to laugh. She pointed at me contemptuously with the fan, as if she had read my thoughts and were publicly exposing my cowardice. I had to lean on a friend’s arm to keep myself from falling. Then she made a pitying or disdainful gesture, turned on her heels, and went into the cemetery. fTer iiead was turned toward me. She fanned herself and nodded to me at the same time. She sidled along among the graves with an indescribable, infernal coquetry until at last she disappeared forever in that labyrinth of tombs.

“I say forever, since fifteen years have passed and I have never seen her again. If she was a human being she must have died before this; if she was not, I rest in the conviction that she despised me too much to meddle with me.

“Now, then, bring on your Ibeories! Give me your opinion about Ihese strange events. Do you still regard them as entirely natural?”

THK weird, the grotesque, the abnormal, the utterly unusual in literature have held a strange fascination for the reading public for centuries; though not until Poe's macabre genius devised an adequate mechanism for such stories was the weird tale raised to the artistic heights it. has attained under such masters as Blackwood, Machen, Loved-aft, and others. The brilliant success of this magazine shows the extent to which the route macabre has caught the imagination of discerning readers. A letter from Montevallo, Alabama, from one of our readers who signs himself I. L. S., goes far to explain the success which Wmmi Talks has experienced: “I have been reading Wkird Talks since 1923. At that time 1 had exhausted all of Poe's works that 1 could lay my hands on, and had come to the conclusion that as far as further exploitation of the weird and gruesome in literature was concerned ‘there just wasn't any more.' Then 1 discovered AVumi) Talks; and I confess that 1 have enjoyed my wild and excited searching through each copy since then for something grotesque, and lovely in its grotesqueness. 1 have in mind one tale by Air. Loveeraft in your magazine. I think it. was called The White Ship (] hope my memory has not failed me on that point, for 1 hoped never to forget it). It was serenely told: furthermore, it was beautiful, and conclusive proof that Mr. Loveeraft ’s gift of word-painting is at times beyond description.”

Writes Tom Cain, of Baltimore, in a letter to The Lyric: “Wkiuo Talks certainly fills a crying need in these days of steadily increasing materialism. To get away from hard facts for awhile, to soar into realms of bizarrerie where one may meet witches and warlocks, shake hands with the celebrities of distant planets, be called a species of asparagus by Dr. de Crandin, or walk right through an old-fashioned spook — such release gives one time to catch one's breath, mentally speaking, or possibly even to get a new slant on the world we have to live in. You have asked a few questions as to the. readers’ attitude toward your reprint policy. AVell. why not conlinuc as at present? There is no better way than to reprint monthly in the magazine some famous weird tale, especially those not easily accessible to the average reader, and to

27.'.

27G


publish, let us say annually, a volume of reprints from your magazine similar to The Moon Terror. I have noticed the list of requested stories in your November issue: it is quite proper that -The Wind That Tramps the World should hold first place; but any volume of reprints should certainly include The Tied Brain, by Donald Wandrei. Those two are real, enduring literature, and Weird Tales should be congratulated on being first to publish them.”

It was with a good deal of trepidation that we included Captain George Fielding Eliot’s story, The Copper Bowl, in our December issue; for it was a particularly gruesome story of torture, and we did not know just how our readers would receive it. But our own judgment of the story’s high merit (for the tale was extremely well told) was confirmed by the letters from you, the readers. Only one story in the issue got more votes — and that was the cover-design story featuring the inimitable Jules de Gran din.

“I think l can safely give my vote of preference for the stories in the December Weird Tales to The 'Copper Bowl,” writes H. F. Scotten, of Indianapolis. “Captain Eliot has succeeded, in this story, in exciting the reader's imagination to the extent that one is drawn, willy-nilly, into the person of his hero; suffering with him his loathing for his fellow enemy, his consuming anger, his desperation incited by the suffering of his sweetheart, his raging attack on the torturers, and finally, the complete dissolution of his sanity. In my opinion, Captain Eliot gave us a notable tale. And there is the inimitable de Grandin again. How does Seabury Quinn do it? By all means, let us have a reprint of The Wind That Tramps the World. I am sure that your readers who have read it would enjoy if again, and it would be a rare treat for those who have not.”

Mrs. Edward McCann, of Dundalk, Maryland, writes to The Eyrie: “The Copper Bowl was — well, it can’t be described. It makes the hair rise yet on the back of my neck to think of it. Beyond Power of Man, by Paul Ernst, was very fine; ever.v time I looked around I expected to see or hear his giant.”

Writes Grace Norton, of San Diego, California: “I have just read my first copy of your magazine, admittedly to see if a plot which I have had in mind for some time would fit it, and I was delightfully surprized in the quality of your stories. From being a purely business proposition at first, it turned out to be an entertaining one — and I finished the magazine the evening it was purchased, and almost scared myself into sleeplessness by doing so! The stories ai’C great. The Copper Bowl is an unusual story, even for gruesomeness. It is splendidly written. Also The Tinkle of the Camel’s Bell, and The Chapel of Mystic Horror.”

“I have just read the conclusion of The Werewolf’s Daughter, by H. Warner Munn,” writes R. E. Ingraham, of Greenville, Michigan. “That serial is about the best story I have ever read in your magazine.”

•“Why not have more stories like The Copper Bowl in the December issue?” queries Miss LaVeme Johnson, of Rawlins, Wyoming. “I’m especially

(Continued on page 278)




A wealth of fascinating stories is scheduled for early publication in Weird Tales, the unique magazine. The brilliant success of Weird Tales has been founded on its unrivaled, superb stories of the strange, the grotesque and the terrible — gripping stories that stimulate • the imagination and send shivers of apprehension up the spine — tales that take the reader from the humdrum world about us into a deathless realm of fancy — marvelous tales so tlirillingly told that they seem very real. Weird Tales prints the best weird fiction in the world today. If Poe were alive he would undoubtedly be a contributor. In addition to creepy mystery stories, ghost-tales, stories of devil-worship, witchcraft, vampires and strange monsters, this magazine also prints the cream of the weird-scientific fiction that is written today — tales of the spaces between the worlds, surgical stories, and stories that scan the future with the eye of prophecy. Among the amazing tales in the next few issues will be: •

ATAVAR, by Wallace West

The author of “The Incubator Man” pictures a world inhabited only by women, many centuries in the future; and in that loveless and heartless world is born a man-child, a throwback to the days when there were both men and women in the world.

IN A DEAD MAN’S SHOES, by Harold Markham

A story of Tyburn Gallows and vengeance from beyond the grave — a tale of Davy Garrick, the actor, and grim justice visited upon the man who betrayed his friend the highwayman.

THE DUNWICH HORROR, by H. P. Lovecraft

The author of “The Call of Cthulhu” rises to new heights of terror and horror in this powerful story — a tale in which the horror creeps and grows, and finally bursts full-blown upon the reader.

THE RAT, by S. Fowler Wright

The author of “The Deluge” has written for this magazine a fascinating weird tale about a physician who discovered the secret of revitalizing the body cells to give eternal life — a tale of a gruesome murder, and a perplexed coroner’s jury.

THE SEA HORROR, by Edmond Hamilton

Picture a flood of water, two miles wide, shooting up from the deeps of ocean, and the constantly rising sea threatening to cover the highest mountains. Panic terror overwhelmed the peoples of the world, until — but that is the story.

Tucked away in a corner of the Himalayas was a strange country, inhabited entirely by madmen; and from a manuscript that found its way to the outor world from this Country of the Mad stalked forth nightmare and horror.

THE SHADOW OF A NIGHTMARE, by Donald Wandrei THE LAUGHING THING, by G. G. Pendarves

Eldred Werne signed away his estates to Jason Drewe, and then died, but the terrific manifestations at the manor showed that he wielded more power dead than alive — a powerful ghost-story.

THESE are but a few of the many super-excellent stories in store for the readers of Weird Tales. To make sure of getting your copy each month, and thus avoid the embarrassment of finding your favorite news stand sold out, just fill out the coupon below and let us send it right to your home. That’s the safest way.

WEIRD TALES,

840 North Michigan Aye.,

Chicago, 111.

Enclosed find $2.50 for 1 year’s subscription to "Weird Tales," to begin with the Maroh issue. ($3.00 in Canada.)

Name - Address City

State

WE Ilil) TALES

1*78

(Continued from pope,276)

f<md of Chinese torture tales. And Jules do (Iranclin — if you were to lose him 1 know we'd all mourn. 1 don't earo much about ' Scienti-fiction. ‘ but 1 like everythin};: else in the magazine — the weirder, the better. I have read Weird Tales, right 111 rough to the end. for three years; it’s the only magazine on (lie market that I read from end to end, even to the ads. I buy the first copy sold here every month. Here's to the ‘Different Magazine’ and the ‘Best’.”

An eulhusiastie letter is this from Herald Murray, of Alexandria. South Dakota; ‘‘Dear Editor and Staff: — L have been a steady reader of Weird Tales for two years and I’m here to tell the world that it is all it is cracked up to be. Throw that coupon away or make it bigger so that we can mention all the stories. I haven’t found a story I didn't like in two years. And here’s a request: by all means let us see Sen bury Quinn’s works in book form.”

“My favorite author in Weird Tales is Eli Colter,” writes E. F. Silhert, of East Camden, New Jersey. ‘‘His best story, to my way of thinking, was On the Dead Man’s ('Ik si. Its poignanl beauty compares very favorably with, that epic, The, Wind Thai Tramps the. World, by Frank Owen. Can’t we have this lovely Chinese story as a reprint? Another unusually beautiful story in your magazine was Tin Woman of the Wood, by A. Merritt.”

Leaders, what is your favorite story in this issue of Weird Tales? By letting us know what stories you like best you can help us to fill the magazine with stories that will appeal to you. Your favorite story in the December issue, as shown by your votes, was Seabury Quinn’s fascinating tale, The Chapel of Mystic Horror. Your second choice was the Chinese torture-tale, The Copper Bowl, by Captain Hcorgc Fielding Eliot.

MY FAVORITE STORIES IN TH E FEBRUARY WEIRD TALES ARE;

Story

Remarks

(1)

( 2 )

( 3 )

I do not like the following stories:

( 1 )

( 2 )

It will help us to know what kind of stories you want in Weird Tales if you will fill out this coupon and mail It to The Eyrie, Weird Tales, S40 X. Michigan Ave.. Chicago. 111.

Why?

1 Reader’s name and addres*:

I

I

I

I - - -



The Star-Stealers

( Continued f rom page 168)

At last we were speeding down the street by which we had entered the city, and before us lay that street’s end, with beyond it the vista of black forest and glowing plain over which we had come. And now we were racing over that glowing plain, a quarter-mile, a half, a mile....

Abruptly from far behind came the - calling, crescendo notes of the mighty horns, marking the sleep-period’s end, bringing back into the streets the city’s tentacle-people. It could be but moments now, we knew, before our escape was discovered, and as we panted on at our highest speed we listened for the sounding of the alarm behind us.

It came! When we had drawn to within a half-mile of the black forest where our cruiser lay hidden, another great tumult of horn-notes burst out over the glowing city behind, high and shrill and raging. And glancing back we saw swarms of the black cones rising from the pyramidal buildings’ summits, circling, searching, speeding out over the glowing plains around the city, a compact mass of them racing straight toward us.

“ On! ” cried Hurus Hoi. * ‘ It 's our last chance — to get to the cruiser!”

Ctaggering, stumbling, with the last ^ of our strength we sped on, over the glowing soil and rocks, toward the rim of the black forest which lay now a scant quarter-mile ahead. Then suddenly Hurus Hoi s turn! tied, tripped and fell. I halted, turned toward him, then turned again as Dal Nara shouted thickly and pointed upward. We had been sighted by the speeding cones above and two of them were driving straight down toward us.

A moment we stood there, rigid, while the great cones dipped toward us, waiting for the death that would

Rosicrucian White Magic

and Its Laws

A Remarkable Book LOANED To All Seekers For Power

Whatever you imagine the power of Black Magic may be, remember there is a pure WHITE MAGIC which is as potent for good.

With the higher occult laws and secrets of mystical power you can change the course of your life and attract success, health, happiness and a development of mental foresight that will astound you and surprise your friends.

Tho Rosicrucians woro the Master Mystics in all ages and today they are organized in Lodges, groups and colleges in all parts of the world. In their teachings they secretly preserve the ancient wisdom that made the Pyramid in Egypt the marvel of today and the mystery temples of Greece the most alluring places of strange achievements.

You may share in this great knowledge if you are more than a mere seeker for mystery and magic. If you really desire to master the arcane, occult knowledge of the Masters, step by step, and become a true Adept of the Rosicrucian Fraternity, you may have the doorway opened to you.

The Rosicrucian teachings containing the true knowledge of the mystics arc never published in books. But you may borrow a book called “Tho Light of Egypt,” in which the strange story of the Rosicrucians is told and an explanation of how you may have the private teachings of the Rosicrucian order in America.

Unless you are truly sincere and anxious to study and gradually become developed in a superior manner, do not ask for this book. Address in confidence, giving name and address in a letter (not on post card):

LIBRARIAN — W. T.


SAN JOSE, CALIF.

A Weird Thriller —

“The Moon T error”


WEIR!) TALES

crash down upon us from them. Then suddenly a great dark shape loomed in the air above and behind us, from which sprang out swift shafts of brilliant green light, the dazzling decohcsion ray, striking Ihc two swooping cones and sending them down in twin torrents of shattered wreckage. And now the mighty bulk behind us swept swiftly down upon us, and we saw that it was our cruiser.

Smoothly it shot down to the ground, and we stumbled to its side, through the waiting open door. As T staggered up to the hridgeroom the third officer was shouting in my ear. “We sighted yon from the forest,” he was crying. “Came out. in the cruiser to get you ’’

But now I was in Ihe hridgeroom, brushing the wheelman from the controls. sending our ship slanting sharply up toward the zenith. Hums Hoi was at my side, now^-pointing toward the great telechart and shouting something in my ear. I glanced over, and my heart stood still. For the great dark disk on the chart had swept down to within an inch of the, shining line around our sun -circle, the danger-line.

“The condenser!” 1 shouted. “We must get to that switch — turn it off! It’s our only chance!”

We were racing through the air toward the luminous city, now, and ahead a mighty swarm of the cones was gathering and forming to meet us, while from behind and from each side came other swarms, driving on toward us. Then the door clicked open and Dal Nara burst into the hridgeroom.

“The ship’s ray-tubes are useless!” she cried. “They’ve used the last charge in the ray-tanks!”

At that cry the controls quivered under my hands, the ship slowed, stopped. Silence filled the bridgeroom, filled all the cruiser, the last silence of despair. We had failed. Weaponless our ship hung there, motionless, while toward it from all directions leaped the swift and swarming cones, in dozens, in scores, in hundreds, leaping toward us, long black messengers of death, while on the great telechart the mighty dark star leapt closer toward the shining circle that was our sun. toward the fateful line around it. We had failed, and death was upon its.

And now the black swarms of the

cones were very near us, and were

slowing a little, as though fearing

some ruse on our part, were slowing

but moving closer, closer, while we

awaited them in a last utter stupor of

despair. Closer they came, closer,

closer....

. \

A ringing, exultant cry suddenly sounded from somewhere in the cruiser beneath me, taken up by a sudden babel of voices, and then Dal Nara cried out hoarsely, beside me, and pointed up through our upper observation-windows toward a long, shining, slender shape that was driving down toward us out of the upper air, while behind it drove a vast swarm of other and larger shapes, long and black and mighty.

‘ ' It ’s our own ship! ' ’ Dal Nara was shouting, insanely. “It’s Ship 16! They escaped, got back to 1 lie Galaxy — and look there — behind them — it’s 1 he fleet, the Federation fleet!”

There was a wild singing of blood in my cars as T looked up, saw the mighy swarm of black shapes that were speeding down upon us behind the shining cruiser, the five thousand mighty battle-cruisers of the Federation fleet.

The fleet! The massed fightingships of the Galaxy, cruisers from Ant arcs and Sirius and Regulus and Spica, the keepers of the Milky Way patrol, the picked fighters of a universe! Ships with which I had cruised from A returns 1o Deneb, lieside which I had battled in many an interstellar fight. The fleet! They were straightening, wheeling, hovering, high above us. and then trey were driving down upon the massed



swarms of cones around us in one titanic, simultaneous swoop.

Then around us the air flashed brilliant with green ray and bursting flares, as de-cohesion rays and etheric bombs crashed and burst from ship to ship. Weaponless our cruiser hung there, at the center of that gigantic battle, while around us the mighty cruisers of the Galaxy and the long black cones of the tentacle-people crashed and whirled and flared, swooping and dipping and racing upon each other, whirling down to the glowing world below in scores of shattered wrecks, vanishing in silent flares of blinding light. From far away across the surface of the luminous world beneath, the great swarms of cones drove on toward the battle, from the shining towers of cities far away, racing fearlessly to the attack, sinking and falling and crumbling beneath the terrible rays of the leap- \ ing ships above, ramming and crashing with them to the ground in sacrificial plunges. But swiftly, now, the cones were vanishing beneath the brilliant rays.

Then Hums Hoi was at my side.! shouting and pointing down toward the glowing city below. “The con- j denser!” he cried, pointing to where I its bine radiance still flared on. “The j dark star — look!” He flung a hand j toward the teleehart. where the dark star disk was hut a scant half-inch from the shining line around bur suncircle, a tiny gap that was swiftly closing. I glanced toward the battle that raged around us, where the Federation cruisers were sending the cones down to destruction by swarms, now, but unheeding of the condenser below. A bare half-mile beneath us lay that condenser, and its cage-pillar switch, which a single shaft of the green ray would have destroyed instantly. And our ray-tubes were useless!

Then wild resolve flared up in my i brain and I slammed down the levers j in inv hands, sent our ship racing j

Learn Electricity

In 12 Weeki — In the Great Shops of Coyne

The whole world of electricity is open to the Coyne trained manbecausethe COYNE big, newly enlarged course is complete and trains you BY ACTUAL WORKnnavastoutlay of electrical equipment.

No Books— No Classes— Start Any Time.

Not a Correspondence School

We don't m:»ke you a mere “paper” electrician. Yoa become a real EXPERT through actual work at COYNE.

You Don’t Need Advanced Education

or experience! Any man who ia ambitious and willing can learn at Coy ns.

$200 to $800 a Month

No bocks or useless theory. Youaretaaincdon everything from door hells to power plants, everything to make you a 560 to 5200 a week COYNE-trained EXPERT. ’STLTVSf’d* TaHow Bend for big free book, epecial FRKE VV ott A oaay r. r. far* offer, details of FREE /.»/• AfetnfierakipandlwoFkKt} conrnei*, including Radio. Write today.


500 S. Paulina St., Dept. 29-96 Chicago, III.

COYNE ELECTRICAL SCHOOL. H. C. Lswfs, Pres.

500 S. Paulina St.. Dopt-?S-3S, Chicago, til.

Meat,* tend me your Free. Uluetrftted Hoot on I-’.Jr tricity end Come. Kj obligation. Giro dtuili of special offer too.

| Name.

I

How to Obtain

A Perfect Looking No«e

My latest Improved Model 26 corrects now ill-shaped noses quickly, painlessly, permanently and comfortably at home. II m t lie only noseshaping appliance of precise adjustment anrl a safe and guaranteed patent device that will actually give you a perfect looking nose. Writ** for free booklet which tell# you how to obtain a perfect looking nose. \1. Trllety, Pioneer Xoseshaplng Specialist, llepf. 3 1 S 1, Binghatnton.N. Y.

MAGIC;

i Dice, $5.00; fords. J1.25: Inks. 51.60; l Magic Fluid for Tran spa rent a, $3.00; fillck Ace (’aids. $1.25; Factory Readers, Sales Boards, et<\ Catalog 10c.

CENTRAL NOVELTY COMPANY. cltlW. Mudifcon St.. Chicago. III.

OLD MONEY WANTED « £ *?•; B £SE

divd.s of old or Odd Coins. Keep All Old Money, it may bo very valuable. Send in cents for New Illustrated Coin Value Book, 4x*>. Guaranteed Prices. Get Posted. We pay cash. Cl. All RE COIN CO.. W. T. Dept., LefUy. N. Y.

A Quick-Action Story — “The Moon Terror”

2S2


down toward the condenser and its upheld cage like a released thunderbolt ox hurtling metal. “Hold tight!” I screamed as we thundered down. “I’m going to ram the switch!”

And now up toward us were rushing the brilliant blue hemispheres of the pit, the great pillar and upheld cage beside them, toward which we flashed with the speed of lightning. Crash! — and a tremendous shock shook the cruiser from stem to stem as its prow tore through the upheld metal cage, ripping it from its supporting pillar and sending it crashing to the ground. Our cruiser spun, hovered for a moment as though to whirl down to destruction, then steadied, while we at the window gazed downward, shouting.

For beneath us the blinding radiance of the massed hemispheres had suddenly snapped out! Around and above us the great battle had died, the last of the cones tumbling to the ground beneath the rays of the mighty fleet, and now we turned swiftly to the telechart. Tensely we scanned it. Upon it the great darkstar disk was creeping still toward the line around our sun-circle, creeping slower and slower toward it but still moving on, on, on.... Had we lost, at the last moment? Now the black disk, hardly moving, was all but touching the shining line, separated from it by only a hair ’s-breadth gap. A single moment we watched while it hovered thus, a moment in which was settled the destiny of a sun. And then a babel of incoherent cries came from our lips. For the tiny gap was widening!

The black disk was moving back, was curving outward again from our sun and from the Galaxy’s edge, curving out once more into the blank depths of space whence it had come, without the star it had planned to steal. Out, out, out — and we knew, at last, that we had won.

And the mighty fleet of ships around us knew, from their own telecharts. They were massing around us and hanging motionless while beneath us the palely glowing gigantic dark star swept on, out into the darkness of trackless space until it hung like a titanic feeble moon in the heavens before us, retreating farther and farther from the shining stars of our Galaxy, carrying with it the glowing cities and the hordes of the tentaclepeoples, never to return. There in the bridgeroom, with our massed ships around us, we three watched it go, then turned back toward our own yellow star, serene and far and benignant, that yellow star around which sw T ung our own eight little worlds. And then Dal Nara flung out a hand toward it, half weeping now.

“The sun!” she cried. “The sun! The good old sun, that we fought for and saved! Our sun, till the end of time!”


I t was on a night a week later that Dal Nara and I said farewell to Hurus Hoi, standing on the roof of that same great building on Neptune from which we had started with our fifty cruisers weeks befoi'e. We had learned, in that week, how the only survivor of those cruisers, Ship 16, had managed to shake oil the pursuing cones in that first fierce attack and had sped back to the Galaxy to give the alarm, of how the mighty Federation fleet had raced through the Galaxy from beyond Antares in answer to that alarm, speeding out toward the approaching dark star and reaching it just in time to save our own ship, and our sun.

The other events of that week, the honors which had been loaded upon ns, I shall not attempt to describe. There was little in the solar system which we three could not have had for the asking, but Hums Hoi was content to follow the science that was his life-work, while Dal Nara, after the manner of her sex through all the ages, sought a beauty parlor, and I



asked only to continue with our cruiser in the service of the Federation fleet. The solar system was home to us, would always be home to us, but never, I knew, would either of us be able to break away from the fascination of the great fleet’s interstellar patrol, the flashing from sun to sun, the long silent hours in cosmic night and stellar glare. We would be star-rovers, she and I, until the end.

So now, ready to rejoin the fleet, I stood on the great building’s roof, the mighty black bulk of our cruiser behind us and the stupendous canopy of the Galaxy’s glittering suns over our heads. In the streets below, too, were other lights, brilliant flares, where thronging crowds still celebrated the escape of their worlds. And now Hums Hoi was speaking, more moved than ever I had seen him.

“If Nal Jak were here ” he

said, and we were all silent for a moment. Then his hand came out toward us and silently we wrung it, turning toward the cruiser’s door.

As it slammed shut behind us we were ascending to the bridgeroom, and from there we glimpsed now the great roof dropping away beneath us as we slanted up from it once more, the dark figure of Hums Hoi outlined for a moment at its edge against the lights below, then vanishing. And the world beneath us was shrinking, vanishing once more, until at last of all the solar system behind us there was visible only the single yellow 7 spark that was our sun.

Then about our outward-racing cruiser was darkness, the infinite void’s eternal night — night and the unchanging, glittering hosts of wheeling, flaming stars.

COMING SOONWithin the Nebula

A Qripping Interplanetary Tale By EDMOND HAMILTON

/Sox'ji'

TIRES

W Days and Get YOlllt.VMOf'EY SAC"

BALLOON ■ TiR£S |

32xt ••• 3.20 1-®“

33 x 4,- 3,50 2.0“ 32 x4yS ‘ '

34s m30x5

33*5

l oo 2.20 '

4.20 250

Save 80% by buying these fine used tires now.

Send SI deposit for each tire ordered. Bahuico

THE 'used TIBE CO. OF CHICAGO Dept. 125, 2553 S. State St., Chicago. HI.

ii


Bearn how to keep your mind on one subject despite interruptions. Great possibilities through thought control. Companion book. “How to Conquer Fear,”.shows how to avoid worry, fear, doubt, anxiety, strain, nervousness, self-consciousness and gain contentment. Both wonderful books by F. W. Hears, M. P. $1 postpaid, or C. O. I). to any U. S. I’ost Office; you pay postman price plus postage. Satisfaction or money tmek.

CENTRE PUB. CO., 828 7tli Ave., X-38, New York.

.... MNGEL

..._n, get Potest Ranger job; $125-$200. and home furnished; hunt, fish, trap,

etc.; vacations on full’ pay. For details, write

NORTON INST* \g^gfe£Sg i

for DRUG HABIT"

FCURED rOREVOt or 140 PAY

jFull tr ea t m e n t bent on trial. Caa be

_J given secretly in privacy oi home. Guaranteed

aish for-aver all desire for whiskey, gin, wine, bom*

I brew, moonshine, opium, morphine, heroin, paregoric end

taudnum. Costs 52.00 if cures, nothing if fails. Save him from Poitoa. STANDARD LABORATORIES Sta. n-88 BALTIMORE. MD.

Amazing discovery. Stops Epileptic attacks at once. NO BROMIDES — NO LIQUID MEDICINE. Results guaranteed or first treatment costs nothing. Write at onco.

REMEDY RRODUCTS, INC.,

Box No. 225 Gen. P. O. New York. Dept. P-09

NOVELTIES, BOOKS, ILLUSTRATE!! CARtoon Books. Send for Eree circular. Walter

Tees, Box 11. Sto. W.. Brooklyn, N. V.

Thrills! Mystery! Excitement!

“THE MOON TERROR”



The Devil-People

( Continued f,

times till the flower-bells on her jinkles seemed to clap their petals for very joy and her sheer, diaphanous skirt stood stiffly out, whirling round her like a wheel of white. Next, with a quick, dodging motion, she advanced a step or two, retreated. and bent almost double in a profound salaam to the audience.

A second of tableau; then with a long, graceful bound she reached the center of the rug spread on the dance floor, turning to the orchestra and snapping her fingers imperatively. A flageolet burst into a strain of rippling, purling minors, a zither hummed and sang accompaniment, a tom-tom seconded with a hollow, thumping rhythm.

“ II ai!” she cried in gipsy abandon. “ Jlni, Inti, Inti!"

With a slow, gliding movement she began her dance, hands and feet moving subtly, in perfect harmony. Now she leaned forward till her cerise bodice seemed barely to clear the floor, now she bent back till it seemed she could not retain her balance. Again her little naked feet were motionless on the dark carpet as twin stars reflected in a still pool while her body swayed and rippled from ankle to chin like a cobra rearing upright, and her arms, seemingly boneless, described sinuous, serpentine patterns in the air, lier hands bent backward till the fingers almost touched the wrists.

Now pipe and zither were stilled and only the rhum, rhum, rhum — rhum-rh urn, of the tom-tom spoke, and her torso throbbed and rippled in the danse du ventre.

The music rose suddenly to a shrill crescendo and she began to whirl on her painted toes with a wild fandango movement, her arms straight out from her shoulders as though nailed to an invisible cross, her skirt

"om page 190 )

flickering horizontally about her like some great, white-petaled flower, her little, soft feet making little, soft hissing sounds against the purple carpet as she spun round and round.

Slowly, slowly, her speed decreased. She was like a beautiful top spun at greatest speed, gradually losing its momentum. The musie died to a thin, plaintive wail, the pipe whimpering softly, the zither crooning sleepily and 1 lie tom-tom’s rumble growing fainter and fainter like receding summer thunder.

For a moment she paused, deadstill. only her slim breasts moving as they fought flul teriugly for breath. Then, in a high, sweet soprano, she began an old Eastern love song, a languorous, beguiling tune of a people who have made a fine art of lovemaking for uncounted generations.

For thou, beloved, art to me As a garden;

Even as a garden of rare and beauteous

flowers.

Iloses bloom upon thy lips,

And the mountain myrtle In thy eyes.

Thy breasts are even as the lily.

Even as the moonflower Who unveils her pale face nightly To the passionate caresses of the moon. Thy hair is as the tendril of the grape....

With slow, gliding steps slie retreated toward the archway through which she had come, paused a moment, and held her hands out to the audience, her henna-tipped fingers curled into little, flowerlike cups.

As she halted in her recessional a great shout went up from one of the slant-eyed men nearest the dancingfloor.

In a moment the place was like an unroofed ant-hill. ‘ ‘ Lights! ’ ’ shouted de Grandin, springing from his seat. “Trowbridge — Costello, guard the door!”



In the sudden welter of bright illumination as every light in the place was snapped on, we saw a circle of the strange people forming and slowly closing on Mutina, more than one of the men stealthily drawing a wicked-looking Malay fens from beneath his coat.

Thrusting both hands beneath her star-sown veil the girl brought forth a pair of limes, broke their rinds with frantic haste and sprinkled a circle of the acid, amber juice about her on the floor.

An evil-eyed man who seemed to be the leader of the strangers started backward with a snarl of baffled rage as she completed the circle, and looked wonderingly about him.

“Ha, my ugly-faced friend, you did not expect that, Item?” asked Jules de Grandin in high good humor. “Me, I am responsible for it. As a half-breed of your cursed devil-tribe, Madame Mutina could no more have touched a lime than she could have handled a live coal, but with the aid of a Christian priest I have freed her from her curse, and now she does defy you. Meanwhile ”

He got no further. With a yell of fury like the scream of a blood-mad leopard, the razor-eyed creature leaped forward, and at his back pressed a half-score of others of his kind.

“Back to back, mon brave,” dc Grandin commanded Starkweather as he thrust his hand inside his jacket and brought forth an eighteen-inch length of flexible, rubber-bound electric cable tipped with a ball of lead in which a dozen steel spikes had been embedded.

Similarly armed, young Starkweather whirled round, bracing his shoulders to the little Frenchman; s back.

Feet well apart, de Grandin and his ally swung their improvised maces with the regularity of pendulums.

Sereams and curses and cries of surprized dismay followed every

HaveANewSkin!

in 5 Days! With Mew German Method!

OaAiuj Part of Face.Meckor Body

Read Our Free Offer Below: Here id the most astonishing. yet simple discovery in the history of beauty culture for women and men, young and old, who wish to get rid of disfiguring facial blemishes and have a new soft, smooth shin and beautiful complexion. It is different from anything you have ever tried or heard of. Harmless, easy, and quick! All explained in a new FREE treatise on skin imperfections and how to have * 'Beautiful Now Skin in 3 Days.” Leajn this secret method yourself, at home. Come forth with an amazing new skin, beautiful youth-like complexion and astonish and captivate friends. Send no money — just name and address and FREE treatment will be sent to you by return maii, postpaid. Addross

MARVO, Dept. 324-35 1700 Broadway Xcw York, X. Y.

Explains many mystifying tricks with coins, cards, handkerchiefs, etc., you can do. Also contains complete catalog of Magic Tricks, Jokes, Puzzles, Escapes, Curios, and Imported Novelties from many Foreign lands. Large assortment, lowest prices. You will amaze and mystify your friends! Send 10c today.

&.YLE GOGGLAS,

Station A-6 Daltaa, Togas


you that I will teach you, by mall, in one lesson, the simplest, shortest method all for §1.00. Not telepathy. You can read one's mind to a dot, -by only looking in the eyes of partner, chum, sweetheart, etc. Praised by New York, Boston, Montreal police chiefs; colleges; Thurston; Blaclrstone; etc. If fake, let them arrest me.

A. HOMICM AW, B 1 1 6 Clarke St., Dept. WT-2, Montreal, Can

ARE YOU BASHFUL?

You must overcome Bashfulness, Self-Consciousness, Mental Fear, to succeed in the business and social world. Send 10c for the amazing booklet, “lioad to Poise and Achievement.” Tells how thousands have conquered bashf ulr.ess.

Seymour ins f., D.?2G, 21 Clarfcson Av., Brooklyn. «. Y.

MEN, GET FOREST RANGER JOB; $i35-$200 mo. and home furnished: hunt, fish, trap. For details, write Norton Inst., 1561 Temple Court, Denver. Colo.

WHISKEY OR DRUG HABIT CURED OR NO pay! Secret Treatment. $2.00 if cured, sent on trial! Laboratories, Sta. C. Box 99, Los Angeles, Calif.

SONG POEM WRITERS — ‘'REAL** FROPOSItion. Hihbeler, D-150, 2104 N. Keystone.

Chicago.

! A Tale of Eery Happenings j “The Moon Terror”

2S6


down-stroke of the spiked clubs. The assailants, half their former number, drew back, mouthing obscenities at the pair, then rushed again to the att ack.

Mutina was like a thing possessed, (.one was every vestige of Western culture she had picked up during her residence here. She was once more a woman of the never-changing East, an elemental female creature, stark bare of all conventions, glorying in the battle and the savage part her man played in it. Safe inside her barrier of lime juice, she danced up and down in wild elation as de Grandin and Starkweather, slowly advancing across the dance ‘floor, beat a path toward her, smashing arms and ribs and skulls with the merciless flailing of their spiked clubs.

“Bravely struck, O defender of the father] css!” she screamed. “ Billahi — by the breath of God,, well struck, O peerless warrior!”

“Up an’ at 'em, boys!” bellowed Costello, seeming to emerge suddenly from the 1 ranee of admiration with which lie had watched de Grandin and Starkweather battle. “Give ’em 1h’ wor-rks!”

Like terriers leaping on a pitful of rats, Costello’s detectives boiled over the dancing-floor. # Blackjacks, previously well soaked in lime juice, brass knuckles similarly treated, and here and there a big, raw fist, still wet with its baptism of acid liquid, struck and hammered against brown faces and dashed devastating blows into wicked, slanting yellow eyes.

{ ' T) k dad, Dr. de Grandin, sor,” declared Costello twenty minutes later as he wrung the little Frenchman’s slender white hand, “ ’tis th’ broth of a boy ye are, an’ no mistake. Never in all me bor-rn days have 1 seen a better lad wid th’ old shillalah. Glory be to Gawd, but ye'd be tit’ pride o’ all th’ colleens an’ th’ despair o’ all the boys if ye

ever went ter Donnybrook Fair, so ye would, sor!”

“ A vintage, Madame," de Grandin cried to the stout hostess who hovered near, uncertain whether to bewail the fight which had emptied her establishment or add her congratulations to Costello’s, “a vintage of your rarest, and let it bo not less than two quarts. Me, I have serious drinking to do, now that business is finished. Have no fear of the good sergeant. Have I not heard him say more than once that legging of the boot is more a work of Christian charity than a crime? Certainly.

“To us, my friends,” he pronounced when the champagne was brought and our glasses filled with bubbling, pale-yellow liquid. ‘‘To stout young Monsieur Starkweather, who fights like a very du Guesclin; to Trowbridge and Costello, than whom no man ever had better friends or better comrades; but most of all, beautiful Mutina, to you. To you, who braved the sorrows of a broken heart and the wrath of the devilpeople on earth and the tortures of the False Prophet’s everlasting hell hereafter for love of him who is your husband. Cordien, never was toast drunk to a nobler, gentler lady — he who says otherwise is it foul liar!”

He sent the fragile goblet crashing to the floor as the pledge was finished, and turned again to the reunited couple. “Your troubles tire like the shadows of him who walks westward in the evening, my friends,” he assured them. “For ever and for always they lie behind you. As for the foul Rakshasas — pouf! as young Starkweather and I shattered their evil skulls, their power over you is shattered for all time, even as this ” Snatching the glowing indong mutina from the girl's diadem he struck it sharply against the table edge. The iridescent shell cracked, almost as though it had been an egg, and from it dropped the most



magnificent pearl I had ever seen. Large us a small marble it was, with a pigeon 's-ncck luster and deep, opallike fire-gleams in ils depths which held the eyes in fascination as a magic crystal might hold a devotee enthralled. Ignorant as I was of such matters, 1 knew the thing must be worth at least thirty thousand dollars, perhaps twice that sum.

‘ To a pearl among women, a pearl among pearls,” de Grandin announced, taking Mutina’s little hand in his and kissing her painted linger tips, one after the other, then closing them about the lustrous gem. "Take you each other to yourselves, my friends,” he bade, "and may the good God bless you and yours for ever and always. ’ ’

Simply as a child, wholly unmindful of the rest of us, Mutina turned her lips for her husband 's caress, and

[THE END]

============================================================
by Howard
============================================================
as she did so, I heard her murmur softly: “Laid kakasih amba lean puji sampei kakol — best beloved, husband and lover, forever and forever I adore thee!”

CRETE

By ROBERT E. HOWARD

The green waves wash above us Who slumber in the bay As washed the tide of ages That swept our l-ace away.

Our cities— dusty ruins;

Our galleys — deep-sea slime; Our very ghosts, forgotten,

Bow to the sweep of Time.

Our land lies stark before it As we to alien spears,

But. ah. the love we bore it Outlasts the crawling years.

Ah, jeweled spires at even — The lute’s soft golden sigh — The Lion-Gates of Knossos When dawn was in the sky.

PERSONAL Appearance

is now more thau ever • hr key uote of suecoaa. both in social and business life. Bow-Legged and Knock -Kneedmen and woman,!*>th young and old, will glad to hoar that my now* appliance will successfully straighten, with inn short time. iKHV-leggedness and knock-kneed leg*, safely, quickly and permanently, w ithout pain, ope rat ion or discomfort. Worn at night. My new ‘■Lim-Sirnitner* Model IX, U. S. Patent. is easy to adjust: Ils results will soon sntc you from further humiliation, and improve your personal appearance 100 per cent. (Model IS is not. like old-fashioned splints or braces, with hof.her.somo straps, hard to adjust, but a scientific, modern d«viec of proven merit, used and recommended for the last X years by physicians everywhere.)

Write today for particulars, testimonials end my free copyrighted physiological and anatomical book which t«- 11s you howto e..rre -t l*ow and knock-kneed legs without any obligation. Enclose a dime for postage.

M. TR1LETY, SPECIALIST 1G76L, W. U. Building, Binghamton, N. Y.

Getting Up Nights

If Bladder Weakness, Getting Up Nights, Backache, Burning or Itching Sensation, leg or groin pains make you feel old, tired, pepless, and worn out why not make the Cystex 48 Hour Test? Don’t give up. Get Cyslex today at any drug store. Put it to a 48 hour test. Money back if you don’t soon feel like new, full of pep, sleep well, with pains alleviated. Try Cystex today. Only 60c.

X p A Y katho, score, rook- iS&saan**,;

-2\t% 1 e $ l>et*ctor. Kvcrjhotly wants it. Sec your best Meg

ffir! and all she’s doing. No uric knows; you see everything. Periscope operates in all climates; lasts lifetime; ready for use. Made of hard rubber. $1.00 cash with order for this wondeiful Instrument and 8 astonishing French pictures.

KATHOS CO., P.0. Bex 8302, City Hall Port Office, NewYorkCity

jPVor DRUG HABIT

Jm 3 CURED FOREVER or NO PAY

- Full treatment seut »n trial. Can bo

__ given secretly in privacy of home. Guaranteed

to banish forever ell desire for whiskey, gin, w'ine, home "brew, moonshine, opium, morphine, heroin, paregoric and laudnum. Costa $2.00 if cure#, nothing if fails. STANDARD LABORATORIES Su.NFss BALTIMORE, MD.

Hay fever and chronic Bronchial coughs yield immediately in many instances to Dr. Jolinson’s “Garden Oils.” Rend stamp for particulars. Dr. Johnson, Bench St., West Haven, Conn.

BIG PAY: SOUTH AMERICAN WORK. AMEKiean firms pay faro, expenses. South American Service Bureau, 14,800 Alma, Detroit, Mich.

A Story of Whirhvind Action!

“The Moon Terror”



1 standard makes — slightly and reconstructed — mope

>age pep dot Sap — greatest l savings ever offered. Buy now.

, Tires Tubes Size T»ren Tubes

J 80x9 92.35 «1.25 34x4'£ $3.95 $2.35

[80*3«/* 2.46 1.35 30x6 4.25 2.4S

— 2 70 145 33&5 4.36 2.60

Z'Lri 35x 5 tf.4S 2.7S

£ « a 2*2 29x4.40 2.70 1.50

2*2® M2 30x5.25 4.00 2 50

2 ^5 2 12 31*5.25 4.25 2.60

2*22 M2 30x5.77 4.33 2.75

8.75 2.25 32x6.20 4.75 2.75

1 33x4V* 8.86 2.30 83x6.00 4.95 2.78

?S*od $1.00 deposit on each tire, | balance C. O. D., plus the shipping? I «» 5 chaTKe. Sa tisf actory service guar1 4lti anteo » or adjust at H price.

8 ‘ | CHSCftG© TfftE & Ri’SBBl CO.

J3&00 S. Knchbnn Av^i Chkago

I 32x3 '/• i 31x4 I 32x4 $$a$

| 34x4 l 32x4'/* k 33x4 'A

IFUSES {

«3<|{

What Do You Want?

Whatever it is we can help you get it. Just give us the chance by writing for

“ Clouds Dispelled”

Absolutely Free. You will be delighted. Aet today! Write NOW!!


Dept. O. Box 1595, TjOS Angeles, ftalif.

Foreign Work!

Like to Travel— Does Romantic, Wealthy South America call you? Unusual opportunities for young men. American employers. Fare and expenses furnished.

IBIG PAY. Write for Free List.

souths American service bureau

14690 Aim a Awenua Detroit, Michigan

HFUL!

_ 1 ' Sh'itTK* on you! ’ ’ Are you -nervous, emharroseed in com1 puny of the other eoxY Stop bcinjr shy of etranjrers. Conquer ' the terrible /<*or of your superiors. Be cheerful and confidcr.t ©t your future! Yoor faults easily overcome so

■you can enjoy life to the fullest. Send 25c for this amazing book. RICHARD BLACKSTOKE, R-COX FLATIRCf) BLOG., NEW YORK

TABAKA OR SNUFF HABIT I ll Sj$$&\%AAjr Cureo OR No Pay B

■ Any fbrrsL cigars, dg a rgt tes, snuff, pipe, die wing. Pull treatment H I on triaLH'mnloes. Costa $1.50 if cr- J « —

H on trim. rv«rxmos9. »/ww v 1.uo >f cured, nothing if it fails. Over ■ 500,000 treatmeri* used. SUPcReA CO. NT-17, Baltimore, Md

INVENTIONS WANTED — PATENTED, UNpatented. If you have un idea for sale, writ© Hartley, Box 928, Bangor, Maine.

ASUPER-THRILLER —

“The Moon Terror”

Highwaymen

( Continued from page 192)

the trigger. Ned plunged at the sharp report, but the white steed stood nonchalantly, unperturbed. A little whiff of smoke cleared in the wind. The specter wiped the back of a hand across his brow, then leveled his pistol at Boyle’s head, but refrained from firing it. Boyle was an excellent shot; he knew, despite his nervousness, that his bullet had struck his adversary between the eyes. He shoved his pistol into his boot.

Spectral and cool came the lamenting command: “Stand and deliver, Sire!”

A hand of white, glaring bones stretched out, and grasped the little leathern bag proffered by Boyle’s outstretched, quavering palm.

“Sire, you are at liberty to go: but quickly, Sire!”

There was no sound from the white steed ’s quick hoofs as he wheeled and hurried his ghastly rider away — a rider who seemed not to stoop before low-hanging limbs, but who stayed in his saddle as lie rode. Boyle was alone.

How long he waited there, trembling, is problematical. Drawing his pistol, he reloaded it and played nervously with the hammer. Ned was still, but a cold sweat covered him. Boyle looked again toward the trees that had startled him: they seemed but trees.

Then he spoke softly to Ned, heeled him on, riding gently, his weapon across his chest.

Then he laughed harshly, as Ned swung into a trot, at last free of that spectral clearing and the things it had held: “Soft, Ned, good horse!... I hope Mag’s in tender mood tonight... I hope she has some hot punch on... in sooth, we can hand her nothing that jingles tonight, old horse!”

Next Month

The


By HENRY S. WHITEHEAD

A strange West Indian tale by the author of the 'Jumbee stories. Gerald Canevin discovers a weird subterranean people in a vast cave under the island of Saona — a people who worship a great, golden goat-idol and cling to the Pan-worship of their ancestors — a strange people who adorn themselves with Carib gold, who speak ancient Greek, and who faithfully observe the rites of a religion that was old when Christianity was born.

D own an endless ladder into this.archaic Hellenic land went the American as the waters on the island ebbed away, and returned to his own world again. But back there in the great cave of the weird rites stalked tragedy — complete, overwhelming, cataclysmic. This vivid and fascinating story will be printed complete in the

March issue of


On Sale February 1

Clip and Mail this Coupon Today!

WEIRD TALES,

840 North Michigan Av©„

Chicago, 111.

Enclosed find $1 for special five months subscription to “Weird Tales” to begin with the March issue ($1.25 in Canada). Special offer void unless remittance is accompanied by coupon.

Name

Address

City State

12 Novels tor $1.00

These are copyright novels by well known writers. Printed on good paper with illustrated covers.

Thrilling Mystery Fiction!

Each of these books is an exciting mystery or detective story. Guaranteed to hold your interest.

And you get the entire set of twelve novels for only one dollar! There is no other charge.

But — you must act immediately! The supply is limited. Right now, while you think of it. tear out this advertisement, fill in the coupon below, and return to us with $1.00 (coin, stamps or money order). The complete set of twelve novels will be mailed to you promptly, postage prepaid.

POPULAR FICTION PUBLISHING CO.,

123 E. Chestnut St., Dept. 49,

Chicago, 111.

I enclose $1.00. Send me the twelve novels, postage prepaid, at once. This $1.00 is payment in full.

Name

Address

City

State

MIRACLES

OF

SCIENCE

Beautifully bound in rich blue cloth with attractive orange-colored jacket.

The Making of Another Moon!

NUMEROUS legends almost as old as the human race represent that the earth once had two moons. Have you ever heard of the Sect of Two Moons? They were the sorcerers of China and were the greatest scientists this world had ever produced. Talk of modern progress — our arts and sciences, our discoveries and inventions are child’s play beside the accomplishments of this race of Chinese devils. Shut away in that remote interior — in a valley so little heard of that it is almost mythical — beyond trackless deserts and the loftiest mountains on the globe — this terrible sect of sorcerers has been growing in power for thousands of years, storing up secret energy that some day should inundate the world with horrors such as never had been known.

Crammed With Action

This novel narrates the sensational attempt of a group of Chinese scientists to obtain rulership of the world by a tremendous threat against the very existence of the earth. The diabolical methods by which they put their scheme into execution, the frantic race across the ocean to circumvent them, the weird and exciting adventures that befell, make one of the most gripping and fascinating novels ever written.

And Other Stories

In addition to this full-length novel, we

are also including in this book three shorter

stories by well-known authors — thrilling weird stories that appeared in early issues of Weird Tales:

OOZE, by Anthony M. Rud, tells of a biologist who removed the growth limitations from an amoeba, and the amazing catastrophe that ensued.

PENELOPE, by Vincent Starrett, is a fascinating tale of the star Penelope, and the fantastic thing that happened when the star was in perihelion.

AN ADVENTURE IN THE FOURTH DIMENSION, by Farnsworth Wright, t* an uproarious skit on the four-dimensional theories of the mathematicians, and interplanetary stories in general.

A Superb Book

Order your copy today! You will enjoy reading this book.

If your bookdealer doesn’t carry this book in stock, have him order it for you, or, mail the coupon to us and we will send the book direct to you postage prepaid.

I Weird Tales, Book Dept., M-12,

840 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago, Illinois.

I Enclosed find $1.50 for cloth-bound copy of THE MOON TERROR.

I

| Name —

| Address | City

State.

[THE END]
