============================================================
Weird Tales
Volume , Number 
Date: April 1927
============================================================
============================================================
TABLE OF CONTENTS

  1. "Paces-Arthur J" by Burks
============================================================
============================================================
PACES-ARTHUR J
by Burks
============================================================
“Perhaps,” said Dr. Ransome smiling. ‘ ‘ One never knows. ’ ’

FACES

A Ghost-tale of Santo Domingo

By ARTHUR J. BURKS

P EOPLE who know me say that I am insane. Many of them tell me so to my face. They do it jokingly, but in their eyes I read that they half believe it.

But who wouldn’t be crazy after going through what I experienced during those dread hours when, hud¬ dled in the after cockpit of a wrecked airplane, in the very center of the dread Gran Estero, the pilot dead in the seat ahead of me with his brains dashed out, I sat the hours away with my eyes peering into the shadows of the great swamp?

Perhaps I did not see all the things memory brings to mind from that dread page of the past. For the silver plate in my head suggests many things, added to which there is a long blank in it somewhere during which I somehow won free of the mys¬ terious region of rotting slime and bubbling ooze—a blank that I find myself glad I can not fill. For it must have contained terrible things.

We had taken off from the flying field at Santo Domingo City with plenty of time to spare ere we should be due at Santiago. It only takes a little over an hour, and it still lacked three hours of sundown when we lifted, in a series of climbing turns, into the sunny sky of the Dominican Republic.

But we had forgotten the fog which sometimes rises suddenly in the Pass through the Cordilleras.

We were half-way through when the fog was upon us, shutting us out from the ground below as effectually as though we both had suddenly gone

blind, and were hurtling through a sea of mist at more than a hundred miles an hour—quite too fast to think of piling up on some unseen moun¬ tainside. I could scarcely see the pilot in the seat ahead. He looked back at me once and shook his head. Then he tried to see the ground below us, as did I. But whichever way we looked there was nothing but that sea of impenetrable white. Even the roaring of the engines was muffled by the density of the fog.

The pilot came back on his stick, and I knew by the way my back pressed against the cowling in rear that he was pointing her nose into the sky in the hope of climbing above the clouds.

Minutes that seemed like hours passed as we continued to climb, on a slant just great enough to keep from stalling, but great enough that I knew we had already cleared the tops of the mountains on either hand. Yet the fog held steadily. It must haye been miles high.

Then the aviator got confused. I don’t blame him. Though I have never flown a plane I have ridden in planes many times, and know what it means to be caught in a fog or among heavy clouds which shut out the earth. Had he flown straight he might haye ridden through the fog; but he did a turn or two in an at¬ tempt to find an opening, and lost us completely. Only by the slackness of the belt which held me in could I be sure that we were flying right-side UR —which was all I did know!

PACES

The altimeter said 10,000 feet, with the needle crawling slowly toward the 11,000 mark! And still the fog.

Finally the flyer held her nose in one direction, at least he tried to, and plunged like a mad thing through the fog. Yet we didn’t penetrate the mist wall.

Long after we should have reached Santiago we were still in the fog, still above 8,000 feet, and darkness was settling down upon us.

There was enough gas in the tanks when we left the field to keep us in the air for four hours. My wristwatch told me that we lacked but fifteen minutes of that time! In God’s name, where were we? We might as easily have been far out over the Atlantic Ocean, the Carib¬ bean Sea or Mona Passage.

I know now that we came down within five miles of Bahia de Escocesa, which is an arm of the Atlantic, and that, had our luck held for a few minutes more, we might have made a fairly safe landing on the broad shelving beach. Just a few minutes, as time is figured, and a life is lost—while another man lives to hear himself called a madman!

The engine spluttered and died. What a dread silence after the roar¬ ing of the motors!

The humming of the wind through the wires and braces told me that we were spiraling downward. We might be headed for a mountaintop or for the open sea and certain drowning— or might be heading directly into the field at Santiago, though only a fool could have hoped for such great good fortune. And still the fog about us held.

The pilot flung his helmet and gog¬ gles over the side and looked back at me, grinning widely.

“We’re through, kid!” he said. “Ain’t one chance in ten thousand of getting out of this with our hides. Let’s hope that they find the remains sometime.”

I am not ashamed to confess that I could not take it so light-heartedly as this; but then I am not made of the stuff of which flyers are constructed.

The aviator turned his eyes back to the instruments on the board before him, and our spiral continued to the tune of the wind in the struts, a tune that had a sinister meaning, a tune that sang of death up-rushing to meet us. The altimeter said 1,500 feet now, with the needle fairly dancing down toward zero.

W hen we broke through the fog we were directly above a forest of nodding treetops, with scarcely a breathing space before the inevitable crash, which could have been avoided only did a miracle happen and the propeller start whirling again.

It seemed to me that we leveled and seemed to sink straight into the forest, though common sense told me that we must have struck at a speed of not less than ninety miles an hour. We hit the treetops and crashed through.

My head banged against the cowl¬ ing when we hit, and I remember nothing afterward—until I opened my eyes in the shadows which hold sway in El Gran Estero, and found that the safety belt still held me in my seat. What was left of our right wing was above the dank waters of the vast swamp, while on my left I could see nothing but shadows, and the oozy slime of the dread quagmire. Only the main part of our ship had held together, and this was steadily sinking forward because of the dead weight of the motor.

The aviator was asprawl in the forward cockpit, his arms hanging over the side. I noted that blood dripped from the fingers of his right hand.

I unfastened my belt and leaned forward, swaying dizzily as a terrible feeling of vertigo seized me.



I shook the aviator roughly by the shoulder.

“McKenzie!” I shouted. “Are you bad hurt, boy?”

He was. For, as I shook him, pull¬ ing him around by the shoulder, I caught a glimpse of his face. It was not a face, but a bloody smear, with a gaping wound in the forehead. His body was still warm, proof that I had been unconscious but a short time. There was no mark of blood on the cowling before McKenzie’s face, and I wondered what had dealt him that blow which had dashed out his brains. Leaning forward carefully I strove to peer down into the cockpit..

When I saw what had done it I all but collapsed. For the forward cockpit had fallen squarely upon the jagged stump of a tree and this had gone through the light fabric and penetrated McKenzie’s body in a way that I find myself unable to mention in cold print. He had been dead even before that blood-stained stump had come on through to bash out his brains.

There was nothing I could do for him. And there seemed little chance of saving myself.

I knew that I was somewhere within mysterious Gran Estero, in a plane that was gradually sinking of its own weight—and that I was mighty fortunate to have lived even this long. Besides which I knew that I was badly hurt, how badly I could only guess—as you can do when I tell you that a goodly portion of my skull is silver at the present moment.

How to get out, and what direction to take? How to reach land solid enough to support my weight? In the daytime I knew I could have done it, somehow—had I been in full pos¬ session of my faculties and my strength.

I studied the swamp around me, but as far as I could see in the dark¬ ness there was nothing but oozy morass, into which I should have dis¬

appeared within a few minutes at most. Ever the plane seemed to sink lower, as though a great mouth were relentlessly sucking it down.

My head was aching terribly, and oddly colored dots were dancing be¬ fore my eyes. Any moment I ex¬ pected to lose consciousness—and rather hoped that, did I do so, I would never regain it. Death would be easy, and would save me untold trouble and privation, to say nothing of unplumbed suffering.

“Well, why don’t you climb out of there and find us a way out?”

I started as though someone had suddenly placed a hot iron against my quivering flesh. In my mind I heard the words, yet I swear that my ears had heard nothing at all. Just an impression that someone had spoken—an impression that had the force of actuality.

The hair at the back of my neck seemed to lift oddly as I whirled and stared into the gloom which was now so deep in Gran Estero that I could scarcely see my hand before my face.

Under a tree with many great branches, in the very midst of an area acrawl with the ooze of the vast quagmire, stood Lieutenant McKen¬ zie, boyishly smiling as he had smiled before the crash! From his puttees to his helmet and goggles he was dressed for flying—save for that ghastly red weal across his forehead!

My eyes must have bulged from their sockets as I stared at him; for he smiled again and the smile froze on his lips, never again to leave them. This time when he spoke his voice sounded hollow, and as cold as a voice from the tomb.

“Well, get going! We must get out of here!”

Yet I couldn’t move a muscle!

Will you understand why when I mention that the dead body of Mc¬ Kenzie still lolled motionless in the forward cockpit?

FACES


McKenzie was dead, killed in a manner that has many times since caused me to waken from horrible nightmares with screams on my lips; yet he couldn’t be dead when I could see him, as plainly as you see this page, standing there beneath that tree in the midst of Gran Estero!

I screamed aloud when I found that I could look through that figure under the tree and see the bole of the tree itself. Still that frozen smile rested upon those white lips; still that red weal showed on the forehead beneath the helmet—a red weal that seemed to be steadily dripping, drip¬ ping, dripping.

Then I began to laugh, a horrible laugh, in which my body shook so convulsively that I all but fell out of the cockpit into the slime.

And as I laughed the phantom of McKenzie disappeared as though a breath had erased it, leaving me alone in the sinking plane with the dead body for company.

But my laughter was short-lived.

For, looking around again for some possible footing place, my eyes found something in the swamp which had at first escaped my notice—a pair of bare feet, with their water-whitened soles just above the surface of the ooze! By some weird necromancy I could look down through the mud to the body which hung upside-down be¬ low those feet—the skeleton of a na¬ tive who had been lost in the swamp.

For some reason my eyes darted back to where I had seen the phan¬ tom of McKenzie, to see the figure of a ragged native in his place. This one looked at me out of sunken eyes, and slowly his arm upraised as he pointed to the bare feet, which were all that I could now see of the grue¬ some thing just outside the plane. A voice issued from the motionless lips of the native—a voice that spoke soft words in gentle Spanish.

“Si, Senor,” said the voice, “it is I whom you see there!”

Wildly I laughed, and the phan¬ tom of the native vanished as the shade of McKenzie had done at the sound of my maniacal laughter.

Wildly, since I knew that my mind was going because of this weird hor¬ ror, I searched the jungle wall with frightened eyes.

T he night drew on apace, and 1 will not dwell on it unduly, for I know that in that direction lies mad¬ ness—madness more mad, even, than is now mine.

For I discovered that El Gran Es¬ tero is the trysting place of countless shades!

Out of the shadows they came to stare at me—out of the shadows to stare, to smile coldly, and to vanish— while I laughed at each in turn.

It is strange that I laughed; but I could not help it, for my head ached abominably, and I laughed to ease the pain. Is that a good reason? To me at the time it seemed so; but per¬ haps I laughed at the faces.

The faces?

I lost count of their vast number, for assuredly there must have been many who have lost their lives in El Gran Estero—whose faces came up before me, for the lips to smile eoldly, to smile coldly and to vanish, while others came to take their places.

As it grew cooler as the night drew on, will-o’-the-wisps came up from the ooze. Balls of -weird flame, balls that had the shape of faces with smiling lips—all sorts of faces. Faces of ne¬ groes, men and women—yes, and children; faces of Dominicans, bronze-burnished by a smiling sun, with here and there the pale, staring faces of white men. Thank God there were but few of these! For I found myself unable to look into their staring eyes. It was as though the white men were brothers of mine, and that I had somehow failed them in the weary search for a way out of the vast quagmire. When they smiled



coldly, reproachfully, and I could give them no aid, they would shake their heads sadly and disappear, only to show again down some vista through the tree-lanes, always looking back at me sadly before they disap¬ peared for good.

The saddest of them all was a white woman with a babe in her arms. She stood for many minutes where Mc¬ Kenzie and the native had stood, and her eyes were sunken caverns ablaze with a vast reproach. Her eyes searched ceaselessly the wall of trees, seeking, seeking, seeking. At last she wandered down a lane through the trees, gliding softly atop the ooze. She looked back several times as she wandered aimlessly away, and once I fancied I could hear the subdued wailing of the babe in her arms. She must have heard it, too, for her head bent as though she soothed the phan¬ tom infant. She did not look up again, and, thus soothing the baby with which she must have died, she vanished into the vastness of the swamp. I wondered what man had been the cause of her going to her death in Gran Estero. For there was that in her eyes that told me a man was to blame.

Faces, faces, always the faces! And the dead blackness of El Gran Estero.

When all the shades I had seen, to¬ gether with a host I had never seen before, some of the latter aborigines who must have gone to their death in the swamp during the regime of Columbus and his governors, came at last and gathered in the ooze about me, to smile coldly and sadly into my face, I must have gone clear out of my head, for that is the last dread happening which I remember.

The plane had sunk so low that slime was beginning to trickle into the cockpit in which I still sat hud¬ dled, when the army of shades gath¬ ered about me—silent and motionless as though they waited for something.

Did they wait for me to lead them out of this never-ending thraldom of theirs? I do not know. I do not know anything about it.

I only know the next thing I re¬ member is that I awoke in a cot in the hospital in Santiago, and that the colonel of the regiment occupying the city was sitting at my bedside. When I opened my eyes the colonel turned to the doctor.

“Can he talk now, Doctor?”

The doctor nodded.

I told the colonel all that had be¬ fallen me. As I talked I saw a queer light eome into his eyes, and knew that he doubted my story, may per¬ haps even have blamed me a little for what happened. I wonder why. His questions took a queer trend at the last.

“Why didn’t you go back into the swamp with McKenzie and help him salvage the engine of the plane?”

“But McKenzie is dead, sir! He was killed in the crash! ’ ’

Again that queer light in his eyes.

“But the natives who found you at the edge of the swamp swear that a man in uniform was with you—a man in helmet and goggles, a man answering in every detail the descrip¬ tion of McKenzie. They say he led you out; but that as soon as he had attracted their attention and saw that you would be taken in charge, he turned back into the swamp be¬ fore they could come close to him. You should have gone back in with him. ’ *

But assuredly the colonel must have been mistaken. Perhaps his limited Spanish caused him to misin¬ terpret the reports of the natives. I know, in my heart, that McKenzie never left that forward cockpit after the crash into El Gran Estero.

But do I know? After all there is that blank to be accounted for, and often I waken in the middle of the night and lie awake until dawn, won¬ dering.

DROME

A Weird-Scientific Serial

By JOHN MARTIN LEAHY

The Story So Far

M ilton Rhodes and Bill Carter penetrate the caverns of horror beneath Mount Rainier, and kill a huge demon—an ape-bat—that has at¬ tacked them. They rescue Drorathusa, the Sibyl¬ line priestess of the Dromans, from being dragged to death by the dying struggles of the ape-bat, and in company with Drorathusa and her com¬ panions they wander into a veritable Dante’s In¬ ferno beneath sea-level, on their way to Drome. Carter, waking suddenly as the Dromans and he are slumbering, sees a monstrous ghostly shape coming straight toward him from the roof of the

CHAPTER 30 THE MOVING EYES

I JERKED out my revolver; I reached over and gave Rhodes a shake that would have awakened Epimenides himself, then grabbed the electric light and flashed it upon the descending monster.

I could scarcely believe my eyes. Nothing but the empty air. The monster had vanished.

“What’s the matter?” came the sudden voice of Rhodes. “What in paradise is going on now?”

I rubbed my eyes and stared up¬ ward once more.

“Look there!” said I, pointing. “Tell me, do you see nothing there?”

“There isn’t anything there, Bill — now.”

“But there was something there a second ago—and it didn’t go away.” “What did you see?”

“I thought at first that it was a demon, phosphorescent or something. It was up there. I tell you it was up there. And it was coming down, coining down straight toward this very spot.”

“Great Caesar’s spook!” exclaimed Rhodes.

“I can’t understand,” I told him, “where the thing went. It was there, and the next instant it wasn’t.”

‘ ‘ Turn off your light, ’ ’ said Rhodes quickly. “ Turn it off, Bill. ”

“Great Zeus, what for? You’d bet¬ ter have your revolver ready. ’ ’

“Revolver fiddlesticks! Off with it, Bill; off with the light!”

The light went off. And look! There it was again—almost directly over us. It was not descending now but was hovering, hovering, as though watching, waiting. Waiting for what ? And it seemed, too, to thrust out arms or tentacula. And look! Some¬ thing started to drop from it—phos¬ phorescence (I shall call it that) dropping to the floor, where it writhed and crawled about like a mass, of serpents. Writhed and crawled and grew dimmer—faded, faded.

We sat staring at this mysterious, inexplicable phenomenon in amaze¬ ment, fascination and horror.

“What on earth can it be?” I asked, my voice a whisper.

“Who,” said Rhodes, “would ever have dreamed of such a thing as that?”

“I’m afraid,” I told him, a shud¬ der passing through my heart, “that our revolvers can’t hurt a thing like this. It seems to be watching us. Look! Aren’t those eyes—eyes star¬ ing at us, moving?”

“ Eyes ? Watching us ? Oh, Lord, Bill!” said Rhodes.

“As for sending a bullet into it, don’t,” he added, “do anything so foolish.”

He arose, stepped over and awoke



Narkus. The monster was still hover¬ ing over the spot. The Droman be¬ stowed upon that ghost but a cursory, careless look, then yawned sleepily.

“Yam-yump!” said Narkus, stretching himself.

Rhodes laid a hand upon the other’s shoulder and pointed an inter¬ rogative finger up in the direction of the phantom. The Droman gave a careless, airy toss of the hand.

“Drome,” said he, then lay down again.

It was obvious from this mono¬ syllabic answer, to say nothing of the manner of Narkus, that there was notiiing to apprehend from this mys¬ terious apparition hovering above us. Certainly, though, there had been no remarkable clarification. Indeed, in a way, Rhodes and I were more puzzled than ever. Drome, Drome! What could be the meaning of that word? Drome!

“It seems, Bill,” said Rhodes, “that we are on our way to a very strange place. As for that ghost up there, it must be a fragment, as it were, of the light of this subterranean land. ’ ’

“Suppose it is—a harbinger, so to speak-—then what on earth can that light be?”

“That, of course, we can not tell. It may be phosphorescent or auroral, or its origin may be one of which no man of our own world ever has even dreamed. I believe that I forgot to mention, when we were speaking of this the other day, that even human beings sometimes evolve light.* One

* “A very decided luminosity has been observed to proceed from dissecting-room subjects, the light thus evolved being sufficient to render the forms of the bodies, as well as those of muscles and other dissected parts (which are peculiarly bright), almost as distinct as in the daylight. . . . Three cases are recorded by Sir H. Marsh,

in which an evolution of light took place from the living body. . . . The light in each case is de¬ scribed as playing around the face, but not as directly proceeding from the surface: and in one of these instances, which was recorded by Dr. D. Donovan, not only was the luminous appearance perceptible over the head of the patient’s bed, but luminous vapors passed in streams through the apartment.”—Dr. Carpenter.

thing, however, is certain: there is light somewhere in this underground world. And I believe, Bill, that we are drawing near to it now.”

“I certainly hope that we are. But look at our ghost. It is moving again—thank heaven (even if it is only a mass of light) away from us!”

“Yes,” said Rhodes. “But look down there. There is another one coming.”

It came, and another and another. I don’t know how many. On they came through the cavern, now linger¬ ing, now hovering; on they passed like some unearthly, ghostly proces¬ sion. And, even though one knew that these phantoms, so dim and so misty, were perfectly innocuous, were as natural (as though there is any¬ thing that can not be natural!) as the light of the firefly, as the glow of the auroral arches and streamers— all the same, I say, the sight of that spectral company, passing, passing, was one indescribably strange and uncanny.

However, a man can get used to anything. I got used to them and ere very long was asleep once more. In the morning, not a single ghost was to be seen. Nor did we see one until near midaftemoon. That ghost was all by its lonesome and so dim that it vanished when our lights drew near. But soon they were about us in all directions. One of these phan¬ toms, large, amorphous, writhing (its light so strong that it was visible in the rays of the lamps but not of the electric ones) came crawling along the floor straight toward us. Rhodes and I, as if by instinct, moved aside; but Drorathusa and the others walked right into it. As they emerged from the spectral, phosphorescent mass, the light clung to them like wraiths of fog, to be slowly dissipated as they advanced in little streams and ed¬ dies behind them.

It was during this, afternoon, too,- that Rhodes made the first discovery

DROME


of life in this fearsome place—little fish, totally blind, like those in the Mammoth Cave. But, though they could not see, they could feel the light. When the rays fell upon the stream, they would drop to the bot¬ tom and seek the concealment of the shadow-places. Poor little blind things! What an existence! And yet how like them, after all, are we poor humans!

Yes, blind are we, though we have eyes; our souls shrinking from the light to wander, lost and happy, in psychic caves and labyrinths more terrible even than this cavern through which we were making our way—making our way to we knew not what.

VX7e journeyed on until about 7 ’ ' o’clock, when we reached an¬ other depot and halted for the night. All were much fatigued, but the Dromans were in high spirits, and ours rose, too. Whether we were drawing near the end of our strange journey was not clear; but there could be no doubt that a great change was immi¬ nent.

To the surprize of Rhodes and myself (nothing in the place seemed to surprize Drorathusa and her com¬ panions) not a single light-wraith was anywhere to be seen. The cav¬ ern was as black as the deepest pit in Erebus.

And it was still the same when we awoke. How I would have welcomed the appearance of the faintest, loneli¬ est ghost—as we called these ap¬ paritions of light.

We noticed that Narkus and Thumbra, and the ladies also, were at some pains to have their bows in such a position that they could be drawn from the quivers at an instant’s warning. Narkus saw us watching, and, sweeping a hand toward the darkness before us, he said: “ Loop - muke

That, as we well knew, is the Droman word for ape-bat. Also, he tried to tell us about something else; but the only thing intelligible in his pantomimic explanations was that it was about a creature even more formidable than a wild loopmuke.

It was with keen anticipation on the part of Rhodes and myself that we set out that morning. For an hour or so, there was no change. Not a single light-wraith had shone in the awful blackness. Then, after passing through a particularly broken and tortuous place, be began to see them, not many, however, and all were faint. Another hour passed, and of a sudden the walls drew together, and the roof came sloping down, down and down until we had to go bent over. Narrower and narrower grew the way, crowding us at last to the water’s edge and then into the very stream itself.

Drorathusa and Narkus were lead¬ ing, Rhodes and I bringing up the rear. Fortunately the current was a gentle one; had it been otherwise, the place would have been simply im¬ passable.

“I certainly,” said Milton at last, “admire the man (maybe he was a woman) who first came through this awful place.”

The next instant he made a rush forward. Delphis, the white-haired girl, had slipped out into deep water. Rhodes caught her just in time to save her from immersion and drew her back to the shallow water by the wall. Not a cry, not the faintest sound had escaped her, and now she only laughed. Beauty was not the only quality that these Droman ladies possessed to win your admira¬ tion.

For ten minutes or so, we toiled our way down that tunnel, now hug¬ ging the wall, now following the shal¬ lows out into the stream and at times to the other side. Then of a sudden there was an exclamation from Drora540


thusa, and the next moment we had issued from the tunnel and the stream and found ourselves in a great lofty cavern.

“Great Rameses!” I exclaimed as we stepped forth. “Look at those things.”

Rhodes, I found, had already halt¬ ed and was gazing up at them—two colossi, one on either side of the mouth of the tunnel. These carven monsters (we were, of course, stand¬ ing between their bases) were seated, and one was a male, the other a fe¬ male. They had not been fashioned in situ but clearly had been brought to the spot in sections. But how had those massive pieces of rock, the smallest of which weighed tons, been raised into their places? Who can tell? It remains, and probably al¬ ways will remain, one of the myster¬ ies of that lost and mysterious land.

We were getting rather used to strange things now; but, so remark¬ able were these great statues, for some minutes we lingered there be¬ fore them.

The Dromans had moved on. We followed, to find ourselves in a few moments before a monstrous carven human head. There was the great pedestal, and there, lying face up¬ ward before it, was the great head— that and nothing more.

“Poor fellow,” said I as we walked around the caput, “where is the rest of him? And why did they leave the head lying like this?”

“I have an idea,” Milton returned, “that there was no rest of him, that this head was all that was to be placed upon that pedestal. ”

I suppose that Rhodes was right. One wonders what happened there so long ago, why the great caput was never raised to the place which they had prepared for it. No man can teU that now. All we know is that there the great head lies, that there it has lain for untold thousands of years.

At last Milton Rhodes climbed up and stood upon the chin, in order, as he said, “to get a good view of the poor gink’s phiz.” And not only that, but he stood upon the poor fel¬ low’s nose—yes, balanced himself on one foot on the very tip of it !

I turned my look to the Dromans with some apprehension, for I did not know what superstitious ideas they might entertain, feared that to them this acrobatic stunt of Rhodes might be sacrilege itself. My misgiv¬ ings, however, were groundless. The Dromans were delighted. They burst into merry laughter; they applaud¬ ed vociferously. Even Drorathusa laughed outright.

Little wonder, forsooth, for a pret¬ ty figure Rhodes made balanced up' there on the poor fellow’s olfactory protuberance. A fine posture truly for one of the world’s (I mean our world’s) great scientists; and I eould not help wondering what certain dignified old fellows (Milton called them fossils) would have thought eould they by television or some miracle have seen him there. And what would the Dromans themselves think? Well, I was glad when he came down and there was an end to that foolishness.

And I put in a prompt remon¬ strance.

“We,” I told him, “have—or, at any rate, we ought to have—a cer¬ tain dignity to uphold. For we are the representatives, as it were, of that great sunlit world above, the world of Archimedes, Kepler, Galileo, New¬ ton, Darwin, Edison—not a world of Judys and Punches!”

“Aw, Bill,” said Rhodes, “now quit your kidding.”

What can you do with a man life® that?

\X7'e soon quitted the spot The yy light-masses were all about us new. Some came slowly gliding, some crawling along the floor; some

DROME


along the walls and the roof. Others floated along overhead or hung mo¬ tionless in the air. The changes of form were sometimes very rapid and certainly as unaccountable as the masses themselves. Occasionally we would see a mass slowly take form in the darkness and as slowly fade into darkness again. Where did the light come from, where did it go? And the explanation of this uncanny phenom¬ enon ? Undoubtedly some electric manifestation, said Rhodes, anal¬ ogous perhaps to the light of the aurora. That, I objected, really ex¬ plained nothing, and Rhodes ad¬ mitted that that was just what it did explain—nothing.

The spirits of the Dromans rose higher as we toiled our way onward and down. They quickened their pace, and, as we swung along like soldiers marching, they suddenly broke into a song or rather a chant, the wonderful contralto voice of Drorathusa leading, the sounds com¬ ing back from the dark secret places of the cavern in echoes sweet as the voices heard in fairyland.

The light-masses were steadily in¬ creasing in number and volume. Es¬ pecially was this pronounced in the great chambers. Fungoid growths were seen, coleopterous insects and at last a huge seolopendra of an aspect indescribably horrible. From this repulsive creature, the Dromans and myself drew back, but Milton Rhodes bent over it in a true scientific scru¬ tiny and ecstasy.

“Look, Bill, look!” he cried sud¬ denly, pointing. “The body has thirty-five somites or segments. ’ ’

“Thirty-five segments?” I queried, scratching my head and wishing that the seolopendra was in Jericho. “What is there so wonderful about that?”

“Why,” said he, “in the Scolopendridse of our own world, the seg¬ ments of the body never exeeed twen¬ ty-one. And this one has thirty-five.

Really, Bill, I must keep so remark¬ able and splendid a specimen. ’ ’

“Great Gorgons and Hydras! Keep it? Don’t touch the horrible thing. It may be venomous, deadly as a cobra. And, besides, you’ll have plenty of time to collect specimens, and probably some of them will make this one look like the last rose of summer. Leave the hideous thing alone. Why, the Dromans will think that you are dippy. Fact is, I believe that they are beginning to think so already.”

“Let ’em!” said Rhodes with true philosophic indifference. “People thought that Galileo was crazy, and Newton and Darwin; Columbus was non compos mentis* Fulton was dip¬ py and Edison was looney. Yes, at one time the great inventor bore the beautiful sobriquet of Looney Edi¬ son. Listen to me, Billy, me lad: the greatest compliment that a scientist can ever receive is to be called a sap by sapheads.”

All that, I admitted, was very true and truly cogent in its place; but this was not its place, and the Dromans certainly were neither sapheads nor saps. To my relief and, indeed, to my surprize, I dissuaded him from taking the thing as a specimen, and on we went once more.

At length we left the stream, which went plunging into a more fearsome place, into which no man could ever dream of following it. Soon after that, the descent became very steep. The going, however, was good, and we went down at a rapid pace. This lasted for two or three hours, and we had descended many hundreds of feet. The slope then suddenly be¬ came gentle, and we were making our way through a perfect maze of tortu¬ ous galleries and passages, which at times opened into halls and cham¬ bers.

* “The very children, it is said, pointed to their foreheads as he passed, being taught to regard him as a kind of madman.”—Irving.



The light was no longer in masses but in streams—streams that crawled and shivered and shook, as though in it spirit things were immersed and were struggling to break from it. The fungal growths were everywhere now. There were mushrooms with pilei bigger than umbrellas. Shapes as grotesque as if seen through the eyes of madness. There were growths, too, that one could almost think beau¬ tiful, and masses hideous and slimy as so much octopi. A strong and most unpleasant odor filled the place. And here and there, almost everywhere in the strange fungoid growth, were things creeping, crawling—things for which I can find no name, and for some of them I am glad that I can not.

It was a weird scene, an indescrib¬ able scene, one horrible, mysterious and yet strangely wonderful too. A place gloomy and weird as any ever conceived by Dante or Dore. And through it human forms were mov¬ ing, and its stillness was broken by human voices, raised in song; and moving with these human beings, these inhabitants of a world as alien as that of Venus or of Mars, were Rhodes and I, we two modern men from the great modem w r orld above— the wonderful, the awful world of the sun.

Of a sudden an exclamation rang out—an exclamation that stilled the song on the instant, brought the party to an abrupt halt and the bow of Narkus and that of Thumbra from the quivers.

The exclamation had broken from Rhodes; he was pointing into the gloom off to our right, a tense, expect¬ ant look on his face.

I peered with straining eyes but could see nothing there. A few moments passed, and nothing was seen. I then turned to Rhodes to ask him what it was; but the words I was about to speak were never ut¬ tered. Instead, I gave something like

a cry and whirled round. For a sound had come from out the fungoid growth and the darkness behind us— a sound as of a slimy thing moving, slipping.

Nothing, however, was to be seen there, and silence, utter silence had fallen upon the spot—silence sud¬ denly broken by another exclamation from Rhodes.

“Great heaven!” I cried as I whirled back to the direction in which he was pointing. “They are all around us!”

“Look, Bill —look at that!”

I saw nothing for a second or two. And then, off in the darkness beyond the reach of our lights, it was as though, in one spot, the darkness it¬ self was moving—yes, the darkness itself.

“See that, Bill?”

I saw it. And the next instant I saw two great eyes, eyes that were watching us—and moving.

CHAPTER 31 “GOGRUGRON!”

T hey were visible for a second or two only—those great eyes burn¬ ing with a greenish fire.

“Where did they go?” exclaimed Rhodes.

“And,” said I, “what can it be? An ape-bat?”

“That is no ape-bat.”

He turned to Narkus. “Loopmuke?” he queried.

No; it was not a loopmuke. But what it was neither Narkus’ panto¬ mime nor Drorathusa’s could tell us.

“I don’t think,” Milton said, “that they know what it is them¬ selves.”

“There!” I cried, whirling round. “There’s that other thing again—the thing behind us!”

“I heard nothing.”

“I heard something, I tell you. That mystery with the eyes is not the

DROME


only thing that is watching ns, watch¬ ing us and waiting.”

Some moments passed, perhaps minutes, in expectant waiting, our glances incessantly darting about the cavern, through which the light-mist was moving in troubled, writhing streams, the nebulous, spectral glow of it seeming to enhance the fearsome gloom of that dreadful place.

“I see nothing,” Rhodes said at last, “and the cavern is as silent as a tomb.”

“But we are seen. And, if we don’t get out of this, it may be our tomb.”

“I don’t think it’s so bad as that. But the Dromans are signing to us to come on—let us hope to a place more pleasant than this one. ’ ’

I had turned to quit the spot, my look, however, lingering in that direc¬ tion whence had come those low, mys¬ terious sounds—a direction right op¬ posite to that in which the moving eyes had shone. And scarcely had I taken a step forward when I fetched up, cried out and pointed.

‘ ‘ See that! See it moving ? ’ ’

A large fungous tree, its form one indescribably grotesque, was quiver¬ ing. It began to shake violently. Some heavy body, hidden from our eyes, was moving there—moving to¬ ward us.

Of a sudden the tree was thrust far over, there was a squashy, sick¬ ening sound, then down it came, the spot where it fell involved in a cloud of phosphorescence, which thinned and faded in the air like dust or mist as it settles.

“Shades of the Gorgons,” I cried, “what is in there?”

A sound from Rhodes turned me round on the instant.

‘ ‘ The eyes again! ” he cried. “There they are. Have we at last got into Dante’s Inferno itself?”

I was beginning to think that we had got into something worse.

Yes, there the eyes were—nearer this time. And yet the thing itself was hidden in the shadows.

Rhodes raised his revolver, rested it on his left arm, took careful aim and fired.

The report seemed to bellow like thunder through tlje cavern. There was a scream from the Dromans, none of whom, save Drorathusa, had ever heard a firearm before; and I doubt that even Drorathusa knew what had killed her demon. On the instant, whilst the report of the weapon and the cry of the Dromans were ringing in our ears, came another sound— came a shriek high, piercing, un¬ earthly, one that seemed to arrest and curdle the very blood in our hearts.

It sank, ceased. But almost instantly it came again, rose until the air seemed to quiver to the sound.

The effect upon the Dromans was most sudden and pronounced.

A nameless fear and horror seized upon me as I saw it.

They started from the spot as if in a panic, signing to us with frantic gestures to follow.

I started; but Rhodes, for some in¬ explicable reason, stood there, his look fixed on the spot whence came those horrible, demoniacal shrieks. The eyes had disappeared, but, in almost that very instant that I turned, they shone again. I gazed at them as though in fascinated hor¬ ror, forgetting for the moment that there was something behind me.

Up the eyes rose. A black thing was visible there in the darkness, but its shape was amorphous, mys¬ terious. Up the eyes rose, seeming to dilate, and the fire in them grew brighter and brighter, became so hor¬ ribly unearthly that I began to won¬ der if I were going insane. The eyes swayed, swayed back and forth for some moments, then gave a sudden lurch into darkness. The shrieks broke, then came again, more hor544


rible, if that were possible, than be¬ fore.

“Come on!” I cried, starting. “For heaven’s sake, let’s get out of this, or I ’ll go mad! ’ ’

“What in the world,” said Rhodes, reluctantly turning to follow, “can it be?”

“Let’s get out of this hellish place —before it’s too late. Remember, there is something behind us! Maybe things in other directions too!”

“Well,” said Rhodes complacently as he followed along in my wake, “we have our revolvers.”

“Revolvers? Just see what your revolver has done! A revolver is only a revolver, while that thing— who knows what that monster is ? ”

“The Dromans know—or think that they do.”

“And look at the Dromans! Fear has them. Did you ever see fear like that before? See how they are sign¬ ing to us to come on. Even Drorathusa is shaken to the very soul. ’ ’

“After all, ’tis no wonder, Bill, that she is. Those shrieks! How can it continue to shriek and shriek like that?”

Ere long we had come up with the Dromans, who at once quickened their pace. On we went, casting ap¬ prehensive glances into the gloom about us. The frightful sounds sank as we moved onward. They became faint, fainter still, and at last, to my profound thankfulness, were no long¬ er to be heard, even when w r e paused to listen.

“If that,” said I during one of these pauses, “is a good sample of what we are to have here in Drome, then I wish that, instead of coming here, I had stepped into a den of cobras or something. ’ ’

Drorathusa’s eyes were upon me. As I ceased speaking, she raised a hand and pointed in the direction whence we had come.

“Gogrugron!” she said.

And I saw fear and horror un¬

utterable well up in her eyes as she said it.

CHAPTER 32 “LEPRAYLYA!”

Cteadily we made our way along ^ and downward. The light-streams were increasing in volume, the lumin¬ osity becoming stronger and strong¬ er, the vegetation more abundant, the weird shapes larger and more un¬ earthly than ever. The silence was broken by the drone of insects—crea¬ tures meet inhabitants, forsooth, for a place so indescribably strange and dreadful.

The cavern we were following was very tortuous, our route even more so, what with the twists and turns which we had to make in order to get through that fantasmagoria of fungal things. I do not mean to say that all of those growths were hor¬ rible, but most of them were, and some were as repulsive to the touch as they were to the sight.

As we toiled our way through them, my heart was replete with dire apprehension. I could not banish the horror of those great burning eyes, the horror of those shrieks, which perhaps were still ringing out. What if we were suddenly to find ourselves face to face with one of those mon¬ sters (or more than one) here in this nightmare forest?

Gogrugron! Gogrugron! What on earth was that monstrosity known to the Dromans as a gogrugron f Well, most certainly, I was not desirous of obtaining first-hand knowledge upon that interesting item for the great science of natural history.

At length the light no longer lay in streams and rifts in the darkness, but the darkness, instead, lay in streams through the light. The Dro¬ mans quickened their already hurried pace, and there were exclamations of “Drome! Drome!”

DROME


“Drome!” echoed Milton Rhodes. “I wonder what we are going to find.”

‘ 1 Something wonderful, ’ ’ said I, “or something worse, perhaps, than anything that we have seen.”

Rhodes laughed, and I saw Drorathusa (Narkus was leading the way) turn and send a curious glance in our direction.

“Well,” I added, “anything to get out of this horrible forest of fungi.”

Some minutes passed, perhaps only fifteen, perhaps a half-hour. Of a sudden the great tunnel, now as light as a place on a sunless day, gave a sharp turn to the right; a glad cry broke from the Hypogeans.

“Drome! Drome!” they cried.

We all hurried forward.

“Look!” I said as we reached the turn. ‘ ‘ The mouth, the mouth! The tunnel ends!”

There, but two hundred feet or so away, was the great yawning mouth of it—nothing visible through the opening but light, pearly opalescent light, mystic, beautiful.

“Drome!” cried Delphis, clapping her hands.

A few moments, and we were standing at the entrance, gazing out over the weird and beautiful scene.

“Drome!”

I turned at the sound and saw Drorathusa, her-figure and mien in¬ effably Sibylline and majestic, point¬ ing out over the strange landscape, her eyes on the face of Milton Rhodes.

“Drome!” she said again.

“Drome!” echoed Milton. Then to me: “I wonder, Bill, what this Drome really is. And I have an idea that this is only the outskirts that we see. Can we at last be near our journey’s end, or is that end still far away?”

“Who can tell? This place seems to be a wilderness. ’ ’

“Yes; a forest primeval.”

“What,” said I, “are we destined to find down there?”

“Things stranger, Bill, than ex¬ plorer ever found anywhere in that strange world above us.”

“No gogrugrons, I hope.”

Rhodes laughed.

“Gogrugron!” said Drorathusa.

And I saw that horror and fear again in her eyes.

The cavern had come out high up on a broken, jagged wall, which went beetling up for hundreds of feet, up to the roof, which arched away over the landscape before us. We were fully half a thousand feet above the floor, which was a mass of luxuriant tropical forest. Glimpses were caught of a stream down to the left, perhaps the one which we had followed for so long. I judged the place to be more than a mile wide; Rhodes, however, that it was perhaps not quite a mile in the widest part. Down this enor¬ mous cavern, the eye could range for three or four miles, at which distance the misty light drew its veil over the forest, the dark walls, and the roof arching across.

At times the light quivered and shook, and there were strange flickerings and dartings of opalescent streaks through it—streaks ineffably beautiful and yet, strangely enough, terrible too, terrible as the blades of plunging swords in hands savage and murderous.

Once more Drorathusa raised a hand and pointed into the misty dis¬ tance.

“Lepraylya!” she said.

Again her eyes were on Milton Rhodes, and, as she spoke that name, I saw in those wondrous orbs of hers the strangest look, I do believe, that I have ever seen. I wondered if Rhodes too saw it. I found his eyes upon Drorathusa, but there was in them so abstracted an expression that I believed his thoughts were far away and that he had not noticed. When I turned to Drorathusa again, it was to find that the strange look was gone.



What a mysterious creature this woman was! Try as I would, yet I feared her.

“Lepraylya!” she said again.

‘‘Lepraylya,’’ Milton nodded. “I wonder who or what this Lepraylya can be, Bill.”

“King maybe—or something worse.”

“Queen, I hope,” said Milton Rhodes.

He drew forth his note-book and pencil and handed them to Drorathusa, pronouncing as she took them that mysterious name: “Leprayl¬ ya?”

A few strokes with the pencil, and Drorathusa had given us the answer.

“You see, Bill?” said Rhodes, smiling. “A woman—undoubtedly, too, the queen. ’ ’

Drorathusa’s Sibylline look was upon him once more—and she did not smile.

CHAPTER 33 FACE TO FACE

W e pound the wall even more broken and savage than it had appeared from the entrance. It was almost destitute of vegetation, a cir¬ cumstance that contributed not a lit¬ tle to the difficulties of the descent. Indeed, making our way down over those pitching naked rocks was a ticklish, unpleasant business, I want to tell you—at times really precari¬ ous.

We had halted to rest above one of these difficult spots, and everyone was either seated or leaning against the rock, when of a sudden Milton, who was nearest the edge, arose and point¬ ed, pointed down and off to the right. “Hello!” said he. “What’s that?” All of us arose, moved forward and looked.

“Where?” I asked.

“Down there by that strange

clump of sycadaceous trees. But ’tis gone now.”

“What was it?”

“I haven’t the faintest idea, Bill. But there was something there, some¬ thing moving. And, if I were imaginative, I would probably say that it was watching us, that, the moment I arose and pointed, it glided back to the concealment of the trees.”

“ Well, did it?”

“It certainly seemed to do so, Bill.”

I peered down there again, but I could not see anything moving. There was silence for some moments. The Dromans stood watching, waiting; stood expectant, puzzled.

“Oh, well,” Rhodes said, turning a quizzical look in my direction and then to the face of Drorathusa, “we must expect to find live things in that forest.”

I saw Drorathusa’s eyes fixed up¬ on his face, then, a few moments after he ceased speaking, return to the clump of cycads.

“Live things?” said I. “There may be things in this place of mys¬ tery more terrible than any live thing. ’ ’

“Come, Bill, come. It can’t be so bad as you think it, or our Dromans wouldn’t be here. I wish, ’ ’ he added, “I knew what that thing is that I saw. ’ ’

“Hello!” I cried the next moment, my look raised up to the vaulted roof, “what does that mean? Good heaven, what next?”

The light, which was brightest up along the roof—in fact, it seemed pressed up against the rock canopy like glowing, diaphanous mist—was changing, fading. The wonderful opalescence of it was disappearing before our eyes.

Of a sudden the spot where we stood was involved in a gloom strange, indescribable, unearthly. Up above, the light-mist was quivering and flickering, pale and dreadful.

DROME


“What on earth is it?” I said.

“Queer place, this!” said Milton Rhodes.

“What can it mean?”

He did not answer. He sent a questioning look toward Drorathusa and her companions. Mine followed. The faces of the Dromans seemed to glimmer ghostlike in the thickening, awful darkness. Upon those pale features, however, was no discover¬ able sign of alarm, uneasiness even.

The gloom deepened. Pitchy darkness came down with a rush. Par away, and up along the roof, there were pale fliekerings and flash¬ es. Then the light burst out, so sud¬ den and so strong that pain shot through the eyes.

Came a cry, and I turned to see Drorathusa pointing, pointing down toward the cycads.

“There it is, Bill!” said Milton. ‘ ‘ There it is again! See it moving ? ’ ’

I saw it but for a fleeting moment only. And, I thought, I saw some¬ thing else.

“Nearer this time,” Rhodes told me.

“It is moving over,” I said, “to lie in wait for us. And, unless I’m much deceived, it isn’t alone.”

“Hum,” said Rhodes. “Queer place, Bill, to go into. Our Hypogeans don’t seem to know what to make of this apparition.”

They were conversing in low tones, casting searching, apprehensive looks along the ragged margin of the for¬ est.

The gloom was falling again. Denser and denser it grew about us. Fainter, more and more dreadful be¬ came those distant fliekerings. The stillness was utter, terrible. There was not the gentlest movement of air. The light gave a last faint, angry gleam and went out altogether.

Abruptly, from out of the dark¬ ness, a voice came sounding, and, though I knew that the voice was Drorathusa’s, I started violently and

almost gave a cry. I pressed the but¬ ton, and the rays of the lamp flashed out, lighting up the spot and show¬ ing the tall figure of Drorathusa with arms extended upward in some mys¬ tic invocation. The others were kneeling, and the words that Drora¬ thusa spoke were echoed, as it were, in their low responsive voices. It was a strange scene—the dark, savage masses of rock, the tall Sibylline fig¬ ure of the woman, the kneeling forms of the others and we two men from the sunlit world looking on in wonder and in awe.

Minutes passed. The wondrous, eery voice of Drorathusa never ceased, though there were moments when those echoing voices were silent.

Look! Par away, there was a faint, ghostly flicker. Another and another. Brighter they became and brighter still, at last opalescent; soon rocks and forest, the whole weird landscape was again bathed in the mystic pearly light.

“What in the world,” I said, “was it?”

“An eclipse,” smiled Rhodes.

‘ ‘ Queer place, this. ’ ’

“Queer place? Can’t you hit an¬ other tune? You don’t have to keep telling me that this is a queer place. I am not likely to forget that fact. And I wonder if these ‘eclipses’ are a frequent phenomenon. Certainly I hope that they are not.,”

‘ ‘ I wish that I could tell you, Bill.”

“And,” I added, “that forest, when the light goes, must be a queer place truly—gosh, I’m catching it from you! But I’ll tell you what: I wouldn’t like to find myself, in the depths of those woods, face to face with a loopmuke or a gogrugron or something and in that instant have the darkness come down.”

“It would be rather unpleasant, I fancy. But unfortunately our likes or our dislikes are not likely to alter in any way the scheme of things. ’ ’



The Dromans, all standing now, were singing a low and sweet song of thanksgiving and gladness. Yes, so sweet were the tones that they seemed to linger in the air, for some moments, even after the song had ceased.

We east our looks along the margin of the forest, but not a single glimpse was caught of that mysterious object, or objects, that we had seen moving down there.

It was patent that the Dromans knew no more what to make of that apparition than we did ourselves and that they looked forward with no little apprehension to our entry into those trees.

The descent was resumed. Were eyes, somewhere below, watching our every movement? I feared that it was indeed so, and, as I well knew, every other member of our little band feared it, too. There was nothing, however, that we could do except descend and face the issue. To turn aside would be futile, for the watch¬ er, or the watchers, would turn aside also to meet us.

'C'be long we reached the talus, and -L / our troubles were then over— that is, as regards the descent. But heaven only knew what troubles were awaiting us somewhere in that for¬ est, to which we were now drawing so very near. As we made our way down over the reck-fragments, amidst which shrubs and stunted trees were growing, more than once did we pause and send keen, searching looks and glances into the silent recesses of that mysterious wood. Some of those sylvan depths were enshadowed, gloomy; others were pervaded with the strong, transparent light-mist— the objects involved in which cast no shadows.

At the foot of the talus, almost be¬ neath the branches of the great palmtrees, there was a pause.

“Now for it!” said Rhodes solemngether in earnest but laconic dia¬ logue, their eyes employed the while in a keen scrutiny of the forest aisles and recesses, before us and on either hand.

Insects were in the air about us; one or two shadowy butterflies flitted past; and that was all. Not a leaf stirred; the air was without the slightest movement. No song, no call of a bird broke the silence, which seemed to press down upon us and about us as though it were a tangible thing. It was as if the spot, the forest itself had never known either the voice or the movement of. any sentient thing. But, somewhere in that forest, hidden and close at hand, there was something sentient—some¬ thing, in all likelihood, watching us, watching us and waiting. Waiting for what? Or, came the sudden thought, even now it was stealing to¬ ward the place where we stood.

“.This suspense,” said I to myself, “is simply awful—as terrible even as that we knew when moving across the bridge.”

Drorathusa turned to us and point¬ ed! in a rather vague direction out in¬ to the trees.

“Narranawnzee,” she said.

“They plan to strike that stream,” said Milton.

‘ ‘ I pray heaven, ’ ’ I told him, ‘ ‘ that we live to see it.”

Whereupon Rhodes laughed out¬ right—the effect of the sudden sound curious and startling, so great was the tension of our nerves.

“One would think, Gloomy Face,” said he, “that you had just issued from the Cave of Trophonius. ‘And he never smiled again. ’ ’ ’

“I have an idea, grinning Shaky Knees,” I retorted, “that we have got ourselves into a place more awful than any Cave of Trophonius. I don’t blink, that’s all.”

DROME


“Nor, Bill, do I,” said Milton soberly. “You know, I’d feel more at ease if it wasn’t for the presence of the ladies. Why did they come on a journey so hazardous and so ter¬ rible?”

How often had we wondered that! We didn’t know the ladies of Drome.

We at once got in motion—Narkus and Rhodes in advance, Drorathusa just behind them, then Delphis and Siris, whilst Thumbra and I brought up the rear. This disposition of our little party was as Drorathusa her¬ self had desired it, and she had been at some pains to impress upon Rhodes and me (though there was no neces¬ sity for that) the expediency of keep¬ ing our weapons ready at any instant for action.

On we went, deeper and deeper in¬ to the wood. Strange forms of trop¬ ical vegetation, strange flowers and insects were everywhere. How inter¬ esting we should have found the place! But there was that thing, somewhere hidden, watching us per¬ haps—following.

Came a sharp exclamation, a dull sound from above; but it was only a bird, a thing of silver and gold, launching itself from off a branch of one of the trees which we were ap¬ proaching. Away it went sailing, lovely as a vision from fairyland, and disappeared amongst the treetrunks and foliage.

Five minutes or so passed. An¬ other sound, an exclamation from Drorathusa, and the party came to a sudden halt.

Everyone had heard it—a clear, unmistakable but inexplicable sound, from behind. We were being fol¬ lowed !

We stood listening for some mo¬ ments, waiting; but the sound did not come again. Save for the low, melancholy drone of insects, the spot was as silent as a tomb.

We resumed our advance, every sense on the alert. A few moments passed, and then we heard it. This time it was off to the right, almost abreast of us, it seemed.

We waited, but nothing was seen, nothing was heard.

We had advanced but twenty or thirty feet when a sudden gloom in¬ volved the forest. The scene on the instant turned weird, unearthly. This, however, was but for a few seconds; then came the light. The advance was at once resumed. But we had gone only a short distance when the gloom came once more, grew so dense that we had to come to a halt.

It lifted, just as I was on the point of switching on my light. Then like a bolt came utter darkness. And, even as the darkness fell, there was a velvety sound and a faint rustling from amongst the foliage beside us. With frantic haste I sought and pressed the light-switch. At the same instant Rhodes flashed on his light. A cry of horror broke from me. There, thrust over the top of a great log and but a few yards distant, was a long snaky head with a pair of great blazing eyes fixed upon me.

We were face to face at last!

CHAPTER 34 ANOTHER!

T jerked out my revolver, took swift A aim, right between those great blazing eyes, and fired.

There was a fearful roar, which seemed to end in a scream, and the long snaky head and neck (no more of the animal had been visible) dis¬ appeared.

“Good work, Bill!” applauded Rhodes.

But he had spoken too soon. Hard¬ ly had the words left his lips when the monster came. A dark fofm, with



a gleam of something white, rose in¬ to the air and came driving straight toward us. I sprang aside and turned to fire but did not do so for fear of hitting the Dromans or Rhodes. There was a heavy, sickening thud; a piercing shriek from Drorathusa, the sound of rending cloth. The mon¬ ster had her!

I leaped toward it and emptied the revolver into its side, whilst Narkus and Thumbra sent each an arrow in¬ to the body. That of the former was driven with such force that the feathered end of the shaft must have been half-way through the lungs. And down the thing fell dead, though still quivering, there in our very midst.

I turned and hurried to Drora¬ thusa. Rhodes was already beside her. The claws of the monster had ripped her dress, from the thigh down, literally into ribbons; strange¬ ly enough, the flesh had escaped even a scratch.

Drorathusa was badly shaken, and little wonder, forsooth. It had been a miraculous escape from terrible injury, from a most horrible death. A few moments, however, and she was as composed as though nothing had happened. Truly there was much to admire in this extraordinary woman.

Riiodes and I turned and examined the body, now lying quite still. It was that of an enonnous cat. Strict¬ ly speaking, it was not, I suppose, a cat; it was not like anything that we had ever seen or heard of. But a cat I shall call it, not knowing what other word to use. The head was long and of an aspect strikingly, re¬ pulsively snakelike. This reptilian resemblance was enhanced by the head’s being absolutely destitute of hair, save for the vibrissae, which were really enormous. The body was a dull, shadowy gray and most curiously mottled. The breast and the belly were snowy white.

“Hum,” said Milton Rhodes. “A strange and terrible creature, Bill. This wilderness must be a real one when we find a carnivore like this— and goodness only knows what others —subsisting in it..”

“Yes. And, with such creatures in the woods, our journey through them is likely to prove an interesting one.”

“Oh, well,” said Rhodes, “we have our revolvers, and the Dromans have their bows and arrows, to say nothing of the swords. And they know how to use them, too.”

“And that reminds be,” I told him: “I haven’t reloaded my blun¬ derbuss.”

“Save those shells, Bill.”

“What for?”

“So we can reload them.”

“Reload them? Do you think we’ll be able to do that in this world called Drome.”

“Why not?”

“But how-?”

Rhodes turned like a flash.

“Hear that?” he said. “By the great Nimrod, another one!”

The darkness still lay impenetrable, pitchy. We flashed our lights into the trees, this way and that, all about us; but no eyes were seen gleaming at us, nothing moving save the shad¬ ows, and not the faintest sound was heard.

The Dromans were listening intent¬ ly, but it was patent that they had not heard that sound wliieh had whirled Rhodes about; nor had I heard it myself.

“Sure,” I queried, “that there was a sound?”

“I certainly thought that I heard something. ’ ’

‘ ‘ Look! ” I cried, pointing upward.

Through the openings in the foli¬ age, pale flickerings of light were to be seen.

DROME


“Thank goodness,” Rhodes said, “we’ll soon have it again!”

And we soon did—the strong, mys¬ tic, and yet strangely misty, light pervading the mysterious and dread¬ ful wood, the flickerings and flashes overhead soon opalescent and beau¬ tiful as ever.

We at once (Narkus and Thumbra having drawn their arrows from the body of the cat) left that spot, to make our way deeper and deeper in¬ to that weird forest, which harbored enemies so terrible and so treaehei’- ous.

“Why,” I queried, “didn’t we camp up there on the rocks, where it would have been impossible (save in darkness) for anything to approach us unseen? We had made a day’s good journey; and here we have gone and left a place of safety to camp somewhere in this horrible wood.”

“What,” returned Rhodes, “would that have been but postponing the inevitable? For into these trees we should have had to go, sooner or later, and the thing would have been watching for us just the same. As you say, we had made a good journey for the day; well, aren’t we making it better?”

“It isn’t ended yet.”

“This place, after all, Bill, may not be so bad as it seems.”

“Well, there is one consolation,” I remarked: “there is no danger of our starving to death in this lovely Dante’s Inferno. Look at all the fruit and nuts and things.”

“Yes. From that point of view, the place is a veritable Garden of the Hesperides. ’ ’

At length we reached the stream, considerably larger than I had expected to find it. At this point where we struck it, the water was deep, the current a gentle one. The rich forest growth hung out over the surface for some distance. There

was a soft rustling of leaves, for some of the branches dipped into the water and were swaying to and fro. This and the faint, melancholy whisper of the gliding element were all that broke the heavy deathlike stillness. It was a placid, lovely scene.

The attainment of this their ob¬ jective seemed to give our Dromans much pleasure; but, save for the fact that there was now no danger of our perishing of thirst, I could not see that we were any better off than we had been.

I thought that this would be the end of our march, now a long one indeed. But the Dromans merely paused, then started down the stream; and, of course, along with them went Rhodes and myself. At times we had literally to force our way through the dense and tangled undergrowth; then we would be mov¬ ing through lovely aisles—

“And many a walk traversed

Of stateliest covert, cedar, pine, or palm.”

We pushed on for perhaps two miles, never moving far from the stream, and then made camp in a beautiful open spot, over which, however, the great branches formed an unbroken canopy of feaves.

A guard was arranged for the night. Rhodes had the first watch.

It was during my vigil that it came —a sudden, fierce, frightful scream, which awoke every member of our little party. It came from some¬ where down the river and was re¬ plete with terror and agony, a sound that made the very air quiver and throb. It seemed human, and yet I told myself that it simply could not be. And then it ceased, as suddenly as it had come, and all was still again, save for the gentle, sad whis¬ pering of the water.

“What,” I exclaimed, my voice, however, low and guarded, “was it?



It sounded human, but I know that that sound did not come from the throat of a man or a woman.”

“It wasn’t human, Bill. What it was—well, that seems to be a mysteryeven to the Dromans.”

I turned and saw Drorathusa, who had just issued from the tent, stand¬ ing beside Narkus and engaged in hurried and whispered dialogue, the troubled looks which she incessantly directed into the forest, in that quar¬ ter whence had come that fearful sound, advertising dread and some¬ thing for which I can not find a name.

“Evidently,” Rhodes observed, “they know but little more about this place and the things in it than we do ourselves. ’ ’

“And that is virtually nothing.”

“Did you,” he asked suddenly, “hear something else?”

‘ * Something else ? When ? ’ ’

“Something besides that scream. And while it was filling the air—and just afterward.”

* ‘ I heard nothing else'. Did you ? ’ ’

“I believe that I diet”

“What?”

“I can nol say,” was his answer. “I wish that I could.”

“Well,” said I, “all we know is that there is something sneaking or prowling about in this wood, that it has just got a victim and that, in all probability, it means to get one of us —or all.”

Rhodes nodded, rather rueful of visage.

“We were fortunate enough,” he said, “to kill one monster; I wonder if we shall be as fortunate the sec¬ ond time. For there is another wait¬ ing perhaps—biding its time.”

An icy shudder went through me.

Another? Yes; but another what?

CHAPTER 35

A SCREAM AND—SILENCE

I am afraid that no one slept very well after that.

It was about 7 o’clock when we left that place. And I confess that I was more uneasy, more troubled than I would have cared to acknowledge. For we were headed toward the spot —at any rate, in the direction— whence had come that frightful scream. What would we find there, or would we find anything?

We did.

We had gone about an eighth of a mile. The disposition of our little party was as it had been the day be¬ fore—Rhodes and Narkus, that is, were in the lead, followed by Drora¬ thusa, then came Delphis and Siris, whilst Thumbra and myself formed the rear-guard. Had my own wishes in the matter been followed, Rhodes and I would have been together. The formation assumed was, as I believe I have mentioned, the one that Drora¬ thusa desired. The idea, of course, was to have the front and the rear protected each by one of the myste¬ rious weapons of the mysterious strange-men—weapons undoubtedly far more formidable in the imagina¬ tion of Drorathusa and her compan¬ ions than they were in reality.

Certainly our revolvers were in eveiy way excellent weapons, but I could not help wishing that they carried a more powerful bullet.

As has been said, we had proceeded about a furlong. The dense and tangled undergrowth had forced us away from the stream, to a distance of perhaps three hundred feet.

At the moment a sound had fetched me up and my exclamation had brought the party to a sudden halt. “What is it?” Rhodes asked.

“We are being followed

DROME


He made no immediate response to that dire intelligence. We all stood listening, waiting; but a silence per¬ vaded the forest as deep as though it had never, since the day of crea¬ tion, been broken by the faintest pulsation of sound.

Then, after some moments, Rhodes asked: “Sure, Bill, that we are being followed?”

“ Yes! I tell you that I know that we are!”

“Well,” said he, turning slowly, “I don’t see that we can do anything about it, save keep a sharp lookout; and so on we go. 5 ’

Whereupon he and the others start¬ ed. I had turned to follow when that sound, low and mysterious as before, stopped me in my tracks. And in that very instant came an¬ other—a sharp interjection from Rhodes, instantaneously followed by a scream, the short, piercing scream of a woman.

I should have explained that we were in a dense growth of fern, a growth some ten or twelve feet in height—a meet place indeed for an ambuscade. Overhead, too, the branches met and intertangled—af¬ fording an excellent place for a baldheaded cat or some other arboreal monster to lie in wait and drop or spring upon any human or brute passing below.

Now, as I whirled to that exclama¬ tion and scream—the danger there behind forgotten in what was so im¬ minent before—it was to find, to my indescribable fear and horror, that my companions, every single one of them, had vanished.

And that horror and fear which chilled my heart were enhanced by the fact that before me, where Rhodes and the Dromans must be, there was no agitation amongst the ferns, not the slightest movement amongst them. I was alone, alone in

that fearful place of dense, conceal¬ ing vegetation, of silence and mys¬ tery. But no; they were there, my companions, right there before me. The ferns hid them, that was all. But why were they so still? What had happened? That exclamation, that scream—the silence that had fallen!

It has taken some space to set this down, but it must not be imagined that the space itself during which I stood there was a long one. It was, in fact, very brief; it was no more, I suppose, than five or six seconds. Then I was moving forward through the crushed ferns, as swiftly as was consistent with caution and, of course, with the revolver gripped ready for instant action.

I had covered perhaps three yards, had reached the point where the way crushed through the fern-growth turned sharp to the left to pass be¬ tween two great tree-trunks; then it was that I heard it—a low, rustling sound and close at hand.

Something was moving there— moving toward me!

CHAPTER 36

GORGONIC HORROR

lmost that very instant I heard it, that low, rustling sound made by something moving through (as I thought) the fern growth, ceased. My companions! What had happened to them?

I began moving forward, every second that passed enhancing that horrible fear which chilled my heart. For each step took me nearer to, though not directly toward, that spot from which had come that mysterious sound.

Just as I was passing between those great tree-trunks, came a sound that fetched me up in my tracks, came a sudden low voice: “Oh, Bill!”



I gave a smothered cry and dashed forward. Rhodes was safe; at any rate, he was alive. A second or two, and I burst from the fern-growth. Surprize, amazement brought me up, and the next instant an indescribable horror had me in its grip.

The surprize, the amazement will be explained when I say that there before me stood my companions, every one of them, safe and sound. There they stood, moveless and silent as so many statues, gazing, as though held in a baleful charm, upon that horror before them. Rhodes was the only one that moved as I burst into the scene.

“I wondered, Bill, why you didn’t come.”

“And I wondered why you all were so silent—after that exclamation and scream. I understand it now.”

Shuddering, I pointed with my alpenstock.

“In the name of the Gorgons, what is that?”

“I wish that I knew, Bill.”

A silence of some seconds followed, and then I remembered—that rust¬ ling sound.

I turned, and another shudder went through me. Drorathusa was standing very near that spot from which that rustling sound must have come.

“What is there?” I asked, point¬ ing.

Rhodes whirled in the direction I indicated.

“Where?”

* ‘ In the ferns—behind Drorathusa. I heard something in there, some¬ thing moving.”

“When?”

“Some moments ago—just before you called. ’ ’

A wan smile flitted across the face of Milton Rhodes.

“That was Drorathusa herself moving through that tangle of flowers.”

“But I tell you that it was mov¬ ing toward me!”

“It was Drorathusa,” said Rhodes. “You only thought that the sound was moving toward you, away from us. No, Bill; it was Drorathusa. There was no other sound. To that I can swear.”

So my imagination had tricked me! And yet how could I be sure that it had? For, in such a moment, with such a sight before him, Rhodes him¬ self might have been the one de¬ ceived. In that ease, any instant might see Death come leaping into our very midst.

“Who gave that scream?” I asked.

“One of the girls, when we broke out of the ferns and she saw that. Delphis, I believe.”

This turned me again to that thing of horror. No wonder that that pierc¬ ing, terrible scream had broken from the girl!

JThe spot into which we had stepped was, for a distance of perhaps one hundred and fifty feet, almost free from undergrowth. The twisted trunks and branches had a gnarled and savage aspect; the light had faded, and what with the gloom that had fallen and the weird shapes of the trees and the branches, the scene was a strange and terrible one. A fitting setting truly for what we saw there in the midst of it.

For, sixty feet or so distant, still, white and lifeless, naked save for a skin (spotted something like a leop¬ ard’s) about the waist, the toes four or five feet from the ground, hung the body of a man.

That itself was horrible enough, but what we saw up in the branches above—how I shudder as that pic¬ ture rises before me! It was a shape amorphous, monstrous, of mottled

DROME


green and brown, with splotches of something whitish, bluish.

There were splotches, too, upon the branches and upon the ground beneath. It was like blood, that whit¬ ish, bluish stuff, and, indeed, that is what it was. In the midst of that amorphous mass were two great eyes, but they never moved, were fixed and glassy. One of the higher branches had been broken, though not clean from the trunk, and, wound around this branch, the end of which had fallen upon those in which the mon¬ ster rested, were what I at first took to be enormous serpents. They were, in fact, tentacula. There was a third tentacle; it hung straight down. And it was from this, the coils wrapped around the neck, that the body of the unfortunate man hung, white and lifeless, like a victim of the hang¬ man’s noose.

“A tree-octopus!” I cried.

“I suppose one might call it that, only it seems to have but three tentacles. And that scream we heard last night—we know now what it was. ’ ’

I shuddered.

“No wonder we thought that the sound was unhuman—in the grip of that thing, the coils around his neck! So near, and we never stirred to his help!”

“Because we never dreamed. And, had we known, Bill, we could not have saved him. Life would have been extinct, crushed out of him, before we could have got here and cut him down. ’ ’

“I thought of some dreadful things,” said I, “but never of a monster like that.”

“A queer place, a horrible place, Bill,” said Milton Rhodes, glancing a little nervously about him. “But come.”

He started forward. The Dromans hung back, but I moved along after

him, whereupon the others followed, though with great apparent reluc¬ tance and horror.

“What I don’t understand, Bill, is this: what happened?”

“Why, the poor fellow was pass¬ ing beneath the branches, the octopus thrust down its tentacle, wound it around the victim’s neck and started to pull him up.”

“All that is very clear. But then what happened—to the octopus?”

“The limb to which the monster had attached itself broke under the added weight, and down it came crashing into those branches in which we see it.”

“That too is clear,” said Rhodes. “But what killed the thing? The fall itself, it seems to me, could not have done so.”

The next moment we halted, a few yards from the spot where hung the still, white body of the Droman.

“I see it now,” said Rhodes, point¬ ing. “As the monster came down, it was impaled upon that swordlike stub of a branch. See it protruding up¬ ward from the horrible body. ’ ’

This, there could be no doubt, was what had happened. And that Gorgonic horror, in the shock of the fall and its impalement, even in its death throes, had never loosed the grip on its victim.

“We can’t leave the poor devil hanging like that,” I said.

“Of course not. And to give him burial will mean the loss of time probably more precious even than we think. This is a wood horrible as any that Dante ever found himself in!”

“We must risk it. We can’t leave him like that, or the body lying on the ground for the beasts to devour.”

Rhodes and I still had our ice¬ picks, and we at once divested our¬ selves of the packs and started the grave. And, as we worked, try as I would I could not shake it from me—


' WEIRD TALES

the feeling that, concealed somewhere in the trees, something was lurking, watching us.

Thumbra, mounted upon the shoul¬ ders of Narkus, cut down the victim. It took three strokes to cleave his sword through the tentacle. Along it ran two rows of suckers, like those of a devil-fish. So powerful was the grip upon the victim’s neck, we could not remove the severed end of the tentacle; and so we buried the poor Droman, in his shallow grave, with

those coils around his throat.

Forthwith we quitted the cursed spot, though Rhodes, I believe, want¬ ed to climb up into that tree and sub¬ ject the monster to a scientific scru¬ tiny!

And, as we pushed on through that dreadful wood, it was as though some sixth sense bore to my brain a warn¬ ing vague but persistent, sinister:

“It is following!”

This story comes to a glorious conclusion In next month’s fascinating chapters.

WEIRD STORY REPRINT

Markheim

By ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON

“"W T’ES,” said the dealer, “our

V windfalls are of various kinds. Some customers are ignorant, and then I touch a dividend on my superior knowledge. Some are dishonest,” and here he held up the candle, so that the light fell strongly on his visitor, “and in that case,” he continued, “I profit by my virtue.”

Markheim had but just entered from the daylight streets, and his eyes had not yet grown familiar with the mingled shine and darkness in the shop. At these pointed words, and before the near presence of the flame, he blinked painfully and looked aside.

The dealer chuckled. “You come to me on Christmas Day,” he re¬ sumed, “when you know that I am alone in my house, put up my shut¬ ters, and make a point of refusing business. Well, you will have to pay for that; you will have to pay for my

loss of time, when I should be bal¬ ancing my books; you will have to pay, besides, for a kind of manner that I remark in you today very strongly. I am the essence of discre¬ tion, and ask no awkward questions; but when a customer can not look me in the eye, he has to pay for it. ’ ’ The dealer once more chuckled; and then, changing to his usual business voice, though still with a note of irony, “You can give, as usual, a clear ac¬ count of how you came into the pos¬ session of the object?” he continued. “Still your uncle’s cabinet? A re¬ markable collector, sir!”

And the little, pale, round-shoul¬ dered dealer stood almost on tiptoe, looking over the top of his gold spec¬ tacles, and nodding his head with every mark of disbelief. Markheim returned his gaze with one of infin¬ ite pity, and a touch of horror.

“This time,” said he, “you are in error. I have not come to sell, but

MARKHEIM


to buy. I have no curios to dispose of; my uncle’s cabinet is bare to the wainscot; even were it still intact, I have done well on the Stock Ex¬ change, and should more likely add to it than otherwise, and my errand today is simplicity itself. I seek a Christmas present for a lady,” he continued, waxing more fluent as he struck into the speech he had pre¬ pared; “and certainly I owe you every excuse for thus disturbing you upon so small a matter. But the thing was neglected yesterday; I must produce my little compliment at dinner; and, as you very well know, a rich marriage is not a thing to be neglected.”

There followed a pause, during which the dealer seemed to weigh this statement incredulously. The ticking of many clocks among the curious lumber of the shop, and the faint rushing of the cabs in a near thoroughfare, filled up the interval of silence.

“Well, sir,” said the dealer, “be it so. You are an old customer after all; and if, as you say, you have the chance of a good marriage, far be it from me to be an obstacle. Here is a nice thing for a lady now,” he went on, “this hand glass—Fifteenth Cen¬ tury, warranted; comes from a good collection, too; but I reserve the name, in the interests of my custom¬ er, who was just like yourself, my dear sir, the nephew and sole heir of a remarkable collector.”

The dealer, while he thus ran on in his dry and biting voice, had stooped to take the object from its place; and, as he had done so, a shock had passed through Markheim, a start both of hand and foot, a sud¬ den leap of many tumultuous pas¬ sions to the face. It passed as swift¬ ly as it came, and left no trace be¬ yond a certain trembling of the hand that now received the glass.

“A glass,” he said hoarsely, and then paused, and repeated it more

clearly. “A glass? For Christmas? Surely not!”

“And why not?” cried the dealer. “Why not a glass?”

Markheim was looking upon him with an indefinable expression. “You ask me why not?” he said. “Why, look here—look in it—look at your¬ self ! Do you like to see it? No! nor I—nor any man.”

The little man had jumped back when Markheim had so suddenly con¬ fronted him with the mirror; but now, perceiving there was nothing worse on hand, he chuckled. “Your future lady, sir, must be pretty hardfavored,” said he.

“I ask you,” said Markheim, “for a Christmas present, and you give me this—this damned reminder of years, and sins and follies—this hand-con¬ science ! Did you mean it? Had you a thought in your mind? Tell me. It will be better for you if you do. Come, tell me about yourself. I haz¬ ard a guess now, that you are in secret a very charitable man?”

The dealer looked closely at his companion. It was very odd, Mark¬ heim did not appear to be laughing; there was something in his face like an eager sparkle of hope, but nothing of mirth.

“What are you driving at?” the dealer asked.

“Not charitable?” returned the other, gloomily. “Not charitable; not pious; not scrupulous; unloving, unbeloved; a hand to get money, a safe to keep it. Is that all? Dear God, man, is that all?”

“I will tell you what it is,” began the dealer, with some sharpness, and then broke off again into a chuckle. “But I see this is a love match of yours, and you have been drinking the lady’s health.”

“Ah!” cried Markheim, with a strange curiosity. “Ah, have you been in love? Tell me about that.”

“I,” cried the dealer. “I in love! I never had the time, nor have I the



time today for all this nonsense. Will you take the glass?”

“Where is the hurry?” returned Markheim. “It is very pleasant to stand here talking; and life is so short and insecure that I would not hurry away from any pleasure—no, not even from so mild a one as this. We should rather cling, cling to what little we can get, like a man at a cliff’s edge. Every second is a cliff, if you think upon it—a cliff a mile high—high enough, if we fall, to dash us out of every feature of hu¬ manity. Hence it is best to talk pleas¬ antly. Let us talk of each other; why should we wear this mask? Let us be confidential. Who knows, we might become friends?”

“I have just one word to say to you, ’ ’ said the dealer. ‘ ‘ Either make your purchase, or walk out of my shop.”

“Tme, true,” said Markheim. “Enough fooling. To business. Show me something else.”

The dealer stooped once more, this time to replace the glass upon the shelf, his thin blond hair falling over his eyes as he did so. Markheim moved a little nearer, with one hand in the pocket of his greatcoat; he drew himself up and filled his lungs; at the same time many different emo¬ tions were depicted together on his face—terror, horror, and resolve, fascination and a physical repulsion; and through a haggard lift of his upper lip, his teeth looked out.

“This perhaps may suit,” ob¬ served the dealer; and then, as he be¬ gan to re-arise, Markheim bounded from behind upon his victim. The long, skewerlike dagger flashed and fell. The dealer struggled like a hen, striking his temple on the shelf, and then tumbled on the floor in a heap.

T ime had some score of small voices in that shop, some stately and slow as was becoming to their great age; others garrulous and hur¬

ried. All these told out the seconds in an intricate chorus of tickings. Then the passage of a lad’s feet, heavily running on the pavement, broke in upon these smaller voices and startled Markheim into the con¬ sciousness of his surroundings. He looked about him awfully. The candle stood on the counter, its flame sol¬ emnly wagging in a draft; and by that inconsiderable movement, the whole room was filled with noiseless bustle and kept heaving like a sea: the tall shadows nodding, the gross blots of darkness swelling and dwindling as with respiration, the faces of the portraits and the china gods changing and wavering like images in water. The inner door stood ajar, and peered into that leaguer of shadows with a long slit of daylight like a pointing finger.

Prom these fear-stricken rovings, Markheim’s eyes returned to the body of his victim, where it lay both humped and sprawling, incredibly small and strangely meaner than in life. In these poor, miserable clothes, in that ungainly attitude, the dealer lay like so much sawdust. Markheim had feared to see it, and, lo! it was nothing. And yet, as he gazed, this bundle of old clothes and pool of blood began to find eloquent voices. There it must lie; there was none to work the cunning hinges or direct the miracle of locomotion—there it. must lie till it was found. Found! ay, and then? Then would this dead flesh lift up a cry that would ring over England, and fill the world with the echoes of pursuit. Ay, dead or not, this was still the enemy. “Time was that when the brains were out,” he thought; and the first word struck in¬ to his mind. Time, now that the deed was accomplished—time, which had closed for the victim, had become instant and momentous for the slayer.

The thought was yet in his mind, when, first one and then another,

MARKHEIM


with every variety of pace and voice —one deep as the bell from a cathe¬ dral turret, another ringing on its treble notes the prelude of a waltz— the clocks began to strike the hour of 3 in the afternoon.

The sudden outbreak of so many tongues in that dumb chamber stag¬ gered him. He began to bestir him¬ self, going to and fro with the candle, beleaguered by moving shadows, and startled to the soul by chance reflec¬ tions. In many rich mirrors, some of home designs, some from Venice or Amsterdam, he saw his face repeated and repeated, as it were an army of spies; his own eyes met and detected him; and the sound of his own steps, lightly as they fell, vexed the sur¬ rounding quiet. And still as he con¬ tinued to fill his pockets, his mind ac¬ cused him, with a sickening iteration, of the thousand faults of his design. He should have chosen a more quiet hour; he should have prepared an alibi; he should not have used a knife; he should have been more cau¬ tious, and only bound and gagged the dealer, and not killed him; he should have been more bold, and killed the servant also; he should have done all things otherwise; poig¬ nant regrets, weary, incessant toiling of the mind to change what was un¬ changeable, to plan what was now useless, to be the architect of the ir¬ revocable past. Meanwhile, and be¬ hind all this activity, brute terrors, like the scurrying of rats in a desert¬ ed attic, filled the more remote chambers of his brain with riot; the hand of the constable would fall heavy on his shoulder, and his nerves would jerk like a hooked fish; or he beheld, in galloping defile, the dock, the prison, the gallows, and the black coffin.

Terror of the people in the street sat down before his mind like a be¬ sieging army. It was impossible, he thought, but that some rumor of the struggle must have reached their ears

and set on edge their curiosity; and now, in all the neighboring houses, he divined them sitting motionless and with uplifted ear—solitary people, condemned to spend Christmas dwell¬ ing alone on memories of the past, and now startlingly recalled from that tender exercise; happy family parties, struck into silence round the table, the mother still with raised finger: every degree and age and humor, but all, by their own hearths, prying and harkening and weaving the rope that was to hang him. Some¬ times it seemed to him he could not move too softly; the clink of the tall Bohemian goblets rang out loudly like a bell; and alarmed by the big¬ ness of the ticking, he was tempted to stop the clocks. And then, again, with a swift transition of his terrors, the very silence of the place appeared a source of peril, and a thing to strike and freeze the passer-by; and he would step more boldly, and bustle about among the contents of the shop, and imitate, with elaborate bravado, the movements of a busy man at ease in his own house.

But he was now so pulled about by different alarms that, while one por¬ tion of his mind was still alert and cunning, another trembled on the brink of lunacy. One hallucination in particular took a strong hold on his credulity. The neighbor harken¬ ing with white face beside his win¬ dow, the passer-by arrested by a hor¬ rible surmise on the pavement— these could at worst suspect, they could not know; through the brick walls and shuttered windows only sounds could penetrate. But here, within the house, was he alone? He knew he was; he had watched the servant set forth sweethearting, in her poor best, “out for the day” written in every ribbon and smile. Yes, he was alone, of course; and yet, in the bulk of empty house above him, he could surely hear a stir of delicate footing—he was surely con560


scious, inexplicably conscious of some presence. Ay, surely; to every room and corner of the house his imagina¬ tion followed it; and now it was a faceless thing, and yet had eyes to see with; and again it was a shadow of himself; and yet again behold the image of the dead dealer, reinspired with cunning and hatred.

At times, with a strong effort, he would glance at the open door which still seemed to repel his eyes. The house was tall, the skylight small and dirty, the day blind with fog; and the light that filtered down to the ground story was exceedingly faint, and showed dimly on the threshold of the shop. And yet, in that strip of doubtful brightness, did there not hang wavering a shadow?

Suddenly, from the street outside, a very jovial gentleman began to beat with a staff on the shop-door, accompanying his blows with shouts and railleries in which the dealer was continually called upon by name. Afarkheim, smitten into ice, glanced at the dead man. But no! he lay quite still; he was fled away far be¬ yond earshot of these blows and shoutings; he was sunk beneath seas of silence; and his name, which would once have caught his notice above the howling of a storm, had become an empty sound. And pres¬ ently the jovial gentleman desisted from his knocking and departed.

Here was a broad hint to hurry what remained to be done, to get forth from this accusing neighbor¬ hood, to plunge into a bath of Lon¬ don multitudes, and to reach, on the other side of day, that haven of safety and apparent innocence—his bed. One visitor had come: at any moment another might follow and be more obstinate. To have done the leed, and yet not to reap the profit, vould be too abhorrent a failure. The money, that was now Markheim’s •oncern; and as a means to that, the beys.

He glanced over his shoulder at the open door, where the shadow was still lingering and shivering; and with no conscious repugnance of the mind, yet with a tremor of the belly, he drew near the body of his victim. The human character had quite de¬ parted. Like a suit half-stuffed with bran, the limbs lay scattered, the trunk doubled, on the floor, and yet the thing repelled him. Although so dingy and inconsiderable to the eye, he feared it might have more significance to the touch. He took the body by the shoulders, and turned it on its back. It was strangely light and supple, and the limbs, as if they had been broken, fell into the oddest postures. The face was robbed of all expression; but it was as pale as wax, and shockingly smeared with blood about one temple. That was, for Markheim, the one displeasing cir¬ cumstance. It carried him back, up¬ on the instant, to a certain fair day in a fishers’ village: a gray day, a piping wind, a crowd upon the street, the blare of brasses, the booming of drums, the nasal voice of a ballad singer; and a boy going to and fro, buried over head in the crowd and divided between interest and fear, until, coming out upon the chief place of concourse, he beheld a booth and a great screen with pictures, dismally designed, garishly colored: Brownrigg w T ith her apprentice; the Mannings with their murdered guest; Weare in the death-grip of Thurtell; and a score besides of famous crimes. The thing was as clear as an illusion; he was once again that little boy; he was looking once again, and with the same sense of physical revolt, at these vile pictures; he was still stunned by the thumping of the drums. A bar of that day’s music returned upon his memory; and at that, for the first time, a qualm came over him, a breath of nausea, a sudden weakness of the joints, which he must instantly resist and conquer.

MARKHEIM


He judged it more prudent to con¬ front than to flee from these consid¬ erations ; looking the more hardily in the dead face, bending his mind to realize the nature and greatness of his crime. So little a while ago that face had moved with every change of sentiment, that pale mouth had spo¬ ken, that body had been all on fire with governable energies; and now, and by his act, that piece of life had been arrested, as the horologist, with interjected finger, arrests the beating of the clock. So he reasoned in vain; he could rise to no more remorseful consciousness; the same heart which had shuddered before the painted effigies of crime, looked on its reality unmoved. At best, he felt a gleam of pity for one who had been endowed in vain with all those faculties that can make the world a garden of en¬ chantment, one who had never lived and who was now dead. But of peni¬ tence, no, not a tremor.

With that, shaking himself clear of these considerations, he found the keys and advanced toward the open door of the shop.. Outside, it had begun to rain smartly; and the sound of the shower upon the roof had ban¬ ished silence. Like some dripping cavern, the chambers of the house were haunted by an incessant echo¬ ing, which filled the ear and mingled with the ticking of the clocks. And, as Markheim approached the door, he seemed to hear, in answer to his own cautions tread, the steps of an¬ other foot withdrawing up the stair. The shadow still palpitated loosely on the threshold. He threw a ton’s weight of resolve upon his muscles, and drew back the door.

The faint, foggy daylight glim¬ mered dimly on the bare floor and stairs; on the bright suit of armor posted, halbert in hand, upon the landing; and on the dark wood-carv¬ ings, and framed pictures that hung against the yellow panels of the wain¬ scot. So loud was the beating of the

rain through all the house, that, in Markheim’s ears, it began to be dis¬ tinguished into many different sounds. Footsteps and sighs, the tread of regiments marching in the distance, the chink of money in the counting, and the creaking of doors held stealthily ajar, appeared to mingle with the patter of the drops upon the cupola and the gushing of the water in the pipes. The sense that he was not alone grew upon him to the verge of madness. On every side he was haunted and begirt by presences. He heard them moving in the upper chambers; from the shop, he heard the dead man getting to his legs; and as he began with a great effort to mount the stairs, feet fled quietly before him and followed stealthily behind. If he were but deaf, he thought, how tranquilly he would possess his soul! And then again, and harkening with ever fresh attention, he blessed himself for that unresting sense which held the out¬ posts and stood a trusty sentinel up¬ on his life. His head turned con¬ tinually on his neck; his eyes, which seemed starting from their orbits, scouted on every side, and on every side were half-rewarded as with the tail of something nameless vanishing. The four-and-twenty steps to the first floor were four-and-twenty agonies.

On that first story, the doors stood ajar, three of them like three am¬ bushes, shaking his nerves like the throats of cannon. He could never again, he felt, be sufficiently immured and fortified from men’s observing eyes; he longed to be home, girt in by walls, buried among bedclothes, and invisible to all but God. And at that thought he wondered a little, recol¬ lecting tales of other murderers and the fear, they were said to entertain of heavenly avengers. It was not so, at least, with him. He feared the laws of nature, lest, in their callous and immutable procedure, they should preserve some damning evi562


dence of his crime. He feared ten¬ fold more, with a slavish, super¬ stitious terror, some scission in the continuity of man’s experience, some wilful illegality of nature. He played a game of skill, depending on the rules, calculating consequence from cause; and what if nature, as the de¬ feated tyrant overthrew the chess¬ board, should break the mold of their succession? The like had befallen Nalopeon (so writers said) when the winter changed the time of its ap¬ pearance. The like might befall Markheim: the solid walls might be¬ come transparent and reveal his do¬ ings like those of bees in a glass hive; the stout planks might yield under his foot like quicksands and detain him in their clutch; ay, and there were soberer accidents that might de¬ stroy him: if, for instance, the house should fall and imprison him beside the body of his victim; or the house next door should fly on fire, and the firemen invade him from all sides. These things he feared; and, in a sense, these things might be called the hands of God reached forth against sin. But about God himself he was at ease; his act was doubtless exceptional, but so were his excuses, which God knew; it was there, and not among men, that he felt sure of justice.

'ITThen he had got safe into the drawing room, and shut the door behind him, he was aware of a respite from alarms. The room was quite dismantled, uncarpeted besides, and strewn with packing cases and incongruous furniture; several great pier-glasses, in which he beheld him¬ self at various angles, like an actor on a stage; many pictures, framed and unframed, standing, with their faces to the wall; a fine Sheraton side¬ board, a cabinet of marquetry, and a great old b4d, with tapestry hang¬ ings. The windows opened to the floor; but by great good fortune the

lower part of the shutters had been closed, and this concealed him from the neighbors. Here, then, Markheim drew in a packing case before the cabinet, and began to search among the keys. It was a long business, for there were many; and it was irksome, besides; for, after all, there might be nothing in the cabinet, and time was on the wing. But the closeness of the occupation sobered him. With the tail of his eye he saw the door— even glanced at it from time to time directly, like a besieged commander pleased to verify the good estate of his defenses. But in truth he was at peace. The rain falling in the street sounded natural and pleasant. Pres¬ ently, on the other side, the notes of a piano were wakened to the music of a hymn, and the voices of many children took up the air and words. How stately, how comfortable was the melody! How fresh the youthful voices! Markheim gave ear to it smilingly, as he sorted out the keys; and his mind was thronged with an¬ swerable ideas and images; church¬ going children and the pealing of the high organ; children afield, bathers by the brookside, ramblers on the brambly common, kite-flyers in the windy and cloud-navigated sky; and then, at another cadence of the hymn, back again to church, and the somno¬ lence of summer Sundays, and the high genteel voice of the parson (which he smiled a little to recall) and the painted Jacobean tombs, and the dim lettering of the Ten Com¬ mandments in the chancel.

And as he sat thus, at once busy and absent, he was startled to his feet. A flash of ice, a flash of fire, a bursting gush of blood, went over him, and then he stood transfixed and thrilling. A step mounted the stair slowly and steadily, and presently a hand was laid upon the knob, and the lock clicked, and the door opened.

Fear held Markheim in a vise. What to expect he knew not, whether

MARKHEIM


the dead man walking, or the official ministers of human justice, or some chance witness blindly stumbling in to consign him to the gallows. But when a face was thrust into the aper¬ ture, glanced round the room, looked at him, nodded and smiled as if in friendly recognition, and then with¬ drew again, and the door closed be¬ hind it, his fear broke loose from his control in a hoarse cry. At the sound of this the visitant returned.

“Did you call me?” he asked, pleasantly, and with that he entered the room and closed the door behind him.

Markheim stood and gazed at him with all his eyes. Perhaps there was a film upon his sight, but the out¬ lines of the newcomer seemed to change and waver like those of the idols in the wavering candle-light of the shop; and at times he thought he knew him; and at times he thought he bore a likeness to himself; and always like a lump of living terror, there lay in his bosom the conviction that this thing was not of the earth and not of God.

And yet the creature had a strange air of the commonplace, as he stood looking on Markheim with a smile; and when he added: “You are look¬ ing for the money, I believe?” it was in the tones of everyday politeness.

Markheim made no answer.

“I should warn you,” resumed the other, “that the maid has left her sweetheart earlier than usual and will soon be here. If Mr. Markheim be found in this house, I need not describe to him the consequences.”

“You know me?” cried the mur¬ derer.

The visitor smiled. “You have long been a favorite of mine,” he said; “and I have long observed and often sought to help you.”

“What are you?” cried Markheim: “the devil?”

“What I may be,” returned the

other, “can not affect the service I propose to render you.”

“It can,” cried Markheim; “it does! Be helped by you? No, never; not by you! You do not know me yet; thank God, you do not know me!”

“I know you,” replied the visitant, with a sort of kind severity or rather firmness. “I know you to the soul.”

“Know me!” cried Markheim. “Who can do so? My life is but a travesty and slander on myself. I have lived to belie my nature. All men do; all men are better than this disguise that grows about and stifles them. You see each dragged away by life, like one whom bravos have seized and muffled in a cloak. If they had their own control—if you could see their faces, they would be altogether different, they would shine out for heroes and saints! I am worse than most; myself is more overlaid; my excuse is known to 'me and God. But, had I the time, I could disclose myself.”

“To me?” inquired the visitant.

“To you before all,” returned the murderer. “I supposed you were intelligent. I thought—since you exist—you would prove a reader of the heart. And yet you would pro¬ pose to judge me by my acts! Think of it; my acts! I was born and I have lived in a land of giants; giants have dragged me by the wrists since I was bom out of my mother—the giants of circumstance. And you would judge me by my acts! But can you not look within? Can you not understand that evil is hateful to me? Can you not see within me the clear writing of conscience, never blurred by any wilful sophistry, al¬ though too often disregarded? Can you not read me for a thing that surely must be common as humanity —the unwilling sinner?”

“All this is very feelingly ex¬ pressed,” was the reply, “but it re¬ gards me not. These points of con564


sistency are beyond my province, and I care not in the least by what compulsion you may have been dragged away, so as you are but car¬ ried in the right direction. But time flies; the servant delays, looking in the faces of the crowd and at the pictures on the hoardings, but still she keeps moving nearer; and re¬ member, it is as if the gallows itself were striding toward you through the Christmas streets! Shall I help you; I, who know all? Shall I tell you where to find the money?”

“For what price?” asked Markheim.

“I offer you the service for a Christmas gift,” returned the other.

Markheim could not refrain from smiling with a kind of bitter triumph. “No,” said he, “I will take nothing at your hands; if I were dying of thirst, and it was your hand that put the pitcher to my lips, I should find the courage to refuse. It may be credulous, but I will do nothing to commit myself to evil.”

“I have no objection to a death¬ bed repentance,” observed the vis¬ itant.

“Because you disbelieve their efficacy!” Markheim cried.

“I do not say so,” returned the other; “but I look on these things from a different side, and when the life is done my interest falls. The man has lived to serve me, to spread black looks under color of religion, or to sow tares in the wheat-field, as you do, in a course of weak compli¬ ance with desire. Now that he draws so near to his deliverance, he can add but one act of service—to repent, to die smiling, and ':hus to build up in confidence and hope the more timor¬ ous of my surviving followers. I am not so hard a master. Try me. Ac¬ cept my help. Please yourself in life as you have done hitherto; please yourself more amply, spread your el¬ bows at the board; and when the

night begins to fall and the curtains to be drawn, I tell you, for your greater comfort, that you will find it even easy to compound your quarrel with your conscience, and to make a truckling peace with God. I came but now from such a death-bed, and the room was full of sincere mourn¬ ers, listening to the man’s last words: and when I looked into that face, which had been set as a flint against mercy, I found it smiling with hope. ’ ’

“And do you, then, suppose me such a creature?” asked Markheim. “Do you think I have no more gen¬ erous aspirations than to sin, and sin, and sin, and, at last, sneak into heav¬ en? My heart rises at the thought. Is this, then, your experience of man¬ kind? or is it because you find me with red hands that you presume such baseness? and is this crime of murder indeed so impious as to dry up the very springs of good?”

“Murder is to me no special cate¬ gory,” replied the other. “All sins are murder, even as all life is war. I behold your race, like starving mariners on a raft, plucking crusts out of the hands of famine and feed¬ ing on each other’s lives. I follow sins beyond the moment of their act¬ ing; I find in all that the last conse¬ quence is death; and to my eyes, the pretty maid who thwarts her mother with such taking graces on a question of a ball, drips no less visibly with human gore than such a murderer as yourself. Do I say that I follow sins? I follow virtues also; they dif¬ fer not by the thickness of a nail, they are both scythes for the reaping angel of Death. Evil, for which I live, consists not in action but in character. The bad man is dear to me; not the bad act, whose fruits, if we could follow them far enough down the hurtling cataract of lie ages, might yet be found more blessed than those of the rarest virtues. And it is not because you have killed a dealer, but because you are MarkMARKHEIM


heim, that I offer to forward your escape.”

“I will lay my heart open to you,” answered Markheim. ‘ * This crime on which you find me is my last. On my way to it I have learned many lessons; itself is a lesson, a momen¬ tous lesson. Hitherto I have been driv¬ en with revolt to what I would not; I was a bondslave to poverty, driven and scourged. There are robust vir¬ tues that can stand in these tempta¬ tions; mine was not so: I had a thirst of pleasure. But today, and out of this deed, I pluck both warn¬ ing and riches—both the power and a fresh resolve to be myself. I be¬ come in all things a free actor in the world; I begin to see myself all changed, these hands the agents of good, this heart at peace. Something comes over me out of the past; some¬ thing of what I have dreamed on Sabbath evenings to the sound of the church organ, of what I forecast when I shed tears over noble books, or talked, an innocent child, with my mother. There lies my life; I have wandered a few years, but now I see once more my city of destination.”

“You are to use this money on the Stock Exchange, I think?” remarked the visitor; “and there, if I mistake not, you have already lost some thou¬ sands?”

“Ah,” said Markheim, “but this time I have a sure thing.”

“This time, again, you will lose,” replied the visitor quietly.

“Ah, but I keep back the half!” cried Markheim.

“That also you will lose,” said the other.

The sweat started upon Mark¬ heim’s brow. “Well, then, what mat¬ ter?” he exclaimed. “Say it be lost, say I am plunged again in pov¬ erty, shall one part of me, and that the worse, continue until the end to override the better? Evil and good run strong in me, haling me both

ways. I do not love the one thing, I love all. I can conceive great deeds, renunciations, martyrdoms; and though I be fallen to such a crime as murder, pity is no stranger to my thoughts. I .pity the poor; who knows their trials better than my¬ self? I pity and help them; I prize love, I love honest laughter; there is no good thing nor true thing on earth but I love it from my heart. And are my vices only to direct my life, and my virtues to lie without ef¬ fect, like some passive lumber of the mind? Not so; good, also, is a spring of acts.”

But the visitant raised his finger. “For six-and-thirty years that you have been in this world,” said he, “through many changes of fortune and varieties of humor, I have watched you steadily fall. Fifteen years ago you would have started at a theft. Three years back you would have blenched at the name of murder. Is there any crime, is there any cruelty or meanness, from which you still recoil?—five years from now I shall detect you in the fact! Down¬ ward, downward, lies your way; nor can anything but death avail to stop you.”

“It is true,” Markheim said husk¬ ily, “I have in some degree complied with evil. But it is so with all: the very saints, in the mere exercise of living, grow less dainty, and take on the tone of their surroundings. ’ ’

“I will propound to you one simple question,” said the other; “and as you answer, I shall read to you your moral horoscope. You have grown in many things more lax; possibly you do right to be so; and at any ac¬ count, it is the same with all men. But granting that, are you in any one particular, however trifling, more difficult to please with your own con¬ duct, or do you go in all things with a looser rein?”

“In any one?” repeated Mark¬ heim, with an anguish of considera566


tion. “No,” he added with despair,

‘ ‘ in none! I have gone down in all. ’ ’

“Then,” said the visitor, “content yourself with what you are, for you will never change; and the words of your part on this stage are irrev¬ ocably written down.”

Markheim stood for a long while silent, and indeed it was the visitor who first broke the silence. “That being so,” he said, “shall I show you the money?”

“And grace?” cried Markheim.

“Have you not tried it?” returned the other. “Two or three years ago, did I not see you on the platform of revival meetings, and was not your voice the loudest in the hymn?”

“It is true,” said Markheim; “and I see clearly what remains for me by way of duty. I thank you for these lessons from my soul; my eyes are opened, and I behold myself at last for what I am.”

A t this moment the sharp note of the door-bell rang through the house; and the visitant, as though this were some concerted signal for which he had been waiting, changed at once in his demeanor.

“The maid!” he cried. “She has returned, as I forewarned you, and there is now before you one more difficult passage. Her master, you must say, is ill; you must let her in, with an assured but rather serious countenance—no smiles, no overact¬ ing, and I promise you success! Once the girl within, and the door closed, the same dexterity that has already rid you of the dealer will relieve you' of this last danger in your path. Thenceforward you have the whole evening—the whole night, if needful —to ransack the treasures of the house and to make good your safety. This is help that comes to you with

the mask of danger. Up!” he cried: “up, friend; your life hangs trem¬ bling in the scales; up, and act!”

Markheim steadily regarded his counselor. “If I be condemned to evil acts,” he said, “there is still one door of freedom open—I can cease from action. If my life be an ill thing, I can lay it down. Though I be, as you say truly, at the beck of every small temptation, I can yet, by one decisive gesture, place myself be¬ yond the reach of all. My love of good is damned to barrenness; it may, and let it be! But I have still my hatred of evil; and from that, to your galling disappointment, you shall see that I can draw both energy and courage.”

The features of the visitor began to undergo a wonderful and lovely change: they brightened and soft¬ ened with a tender triumph; and, even as they brightened, faded and dislimned. But Markheim did not pause to watch or understand the transformation. He opened the door and went downstairs very slowly, thinking to himself. His past went soberly before him; he beheld it as it was, ugly and strenuous like a dream, random as chance-medley—a scene of defeat. Life, as he thus re¬ viewed it, tempted him no longer; but on the farther side he perceived a quiet haven for his bark. He paused in the passage, and looked in¬ to the shop, where the candle still burned by the dead body. It was strangely silent. Thoughts of the dealer swarmed into his mind, as he stood gazing. And then the bell once more broke out into impatient clamor.

He confronted the maid upon the threshold with something like a smile.

“You had better go for the police,” said he: “I have killed your master.”

L ETTERS are still pouring in to The Eyrie on the question of whether Weird Tales should continue to use one “Weird Story Reprint” in « each issue, and so far those who want us to continue our reprint policy are greatly in the majority. So, in obedience to your wishes, we shall con¬ tinue our policy of selecting, each month, one of the short-story masterpieces of weird fiction from the literature of the past; but all the other stories in each issue will be entirely new, the best current weird fiction and weirdscientific fiction that can be obtained. In the future, as in the past, Weird Tales will print a type of fiction such as can be obtained nowhere else—highly imaginative tales of science and pseudo-science (such as Explor¬ ers Into Infinity in this issue); tales of supernatural horror (such as Out of the Earth in this issue); tales of spirit return (such as The Return in this issue) ; bizarre and fantastic tales, occult and mystic stories; tales of terror and mystery; tales of werewolves, witchcraft and devil-worship, and tales of strange monsters. It is on such stories that the brilliant success of Weird Tales has been built, and we shall continue to give you, the readers, a wide variety of the best weird fiction in the world.

Arthur W. Davenport, of Buffalo, New York, asks for more orientales. “According to my opinion, you have published very few Oriental weird stories,” he writes. “To the minds of most people, the East is filled with mystery and weird happenings. In saying that the plot of a story is laid in New York or London there is no special effect produced upon the mind of the auditor; yet how different is the connotation of the words Bagdad, Stamboul and Damascus! Mystery, intrigue and weirdness are disclosed in the ‘Open Sesame’ of those words. The unusual fairly leaps into being. The unknown and the unusual should produce the most weird effect in story¬ telling.”

Weird Tales will publish a number of weird Oriental tales such as Mr. Davenport asks for, during this year. Some of the best orientales of recent magazine literature have appeared in the pages of this magazine, for in¬ stance, the Asiatic tales of E. Hoffmann Price, and the Chinese fantasies of Frank Owen; and letters are still coming in from readers praising Murray Leinster’s powerful Asiatic torture-tale, The Oldest Story in the World, which appeared in Weird Tales.

“I have been a silent admirer of Weird Tales long enough,” writes Jack T. Chord, of New York City, “so I want to take this opportunity of telling you how I enjoy the first of every month, when W. T. appears on the




stands. I seldom have time to read, but when I do I want the stories to take me far away from earthly environments. That’s just what Weird Tales does for me and many others.”

Writes Marion Clementz, of St. Petersburg, Florida: “Dear Eyrie:— Dem good issue this February one; hope the rest are like it ’cause here’s one guy who’s gonna read Weird Tales. My choice of this here February issue is The Man Who Cast No Shadow, The Atomic Conquerors and The Unearthly. Drome shore held me tense till I came to the end of part two, and The Star Shell also was good while it lasted. Excuse my slang.”

Harold D. Scherer, of Winona, Minnesota, writes to The Eyrie: “A year ago last August I happened to notice a copy of Weird Tales in a maga¬ zine shop, and since that time I have not missed a single copy, neither have I missed reading a single story in your wonderful magazine. Interplanetary stories excite my imagination more than any other kind, and I also am very fond of stories of reincarnation.”

“Drome grows more wonderful with each succeeding chapter,” writes Margaret Harper, of Claymont, Delaware. “It seems plausible enough that a strange land could exist under a great range of mountains. The Sign of the Seven Skulls was certainly weird enough to suit any lover of weird tales, and The Brimstone Cat was certainly out of the ordinary and very enter¬ taining.”

“Seabury Quinn’s stories,” writes Karl Houghton, of Lakewood, Ohio, “are without a doubt above all others, and I wish to say that he has the im¬ mortal Poe shoved off the map. The Atomic Conquerors is fine; I only wish we could have more of those tales of dire things that move the whole world to terror, like The Metal Giants and The Abysmal Horror. But The Church Stove at Raebrudafisk is the one I enjoyed most in the February issue. It is stories where minor happenings lead up to fearful results that get my vote for the best stories. ’ ’

A. W. Oswald, of Syracuse, New York, writes to The Eyrie: “I think that Drome, now in its second installment, is one of the best serial stories yet published, being different from the usual type which have had to do entirely with scientific subjects and materialistic creatures. I hope it doesn’t end by having the creatures found under the mountain, remnants of a lost race, but still humans, although I suppose in the end the so-called Angel will fall in love with the scientist, as is usually the case. The Sign of the Seven Skulls was really the best weird story in your last issue; let’s have more stories of the Hartz Mountains and the Black Forest.”

Mrs. E. M. Burton, of Birmingham, Alabama, chooses three stories as her favorites in the February issue, for the following reasons: “The Man Who Cast No Shadow because it is well written, is clear enough for anyone to understand, and I like that type of story anyway. The Atomic Conquer¬ ors because I have never read another story of that exact type, and because, although it is utterly impossible, it is so well written that you almost be¬ lieve that it is possible. The Sign of the Seven Skulls because it makes the gooseflesh go up and down one’s spine and still you read on. Believe me that does not happen always, for a good many so-called ‘horror stories’ leave a ‘bad taste in the mouth.’ ”

“By all means continue to publish reprints,” urges George I. Foster, rector of the Church of the Good Shepherd in Cleveland, Ohio, “for such writers as Wilkie Collins, Edgar Allan Poe and Washington Irving are alTHE EYRIE

ways a treat to intelligent readers. Among your own writers that I most ad¬ mire are Lovecraft and Quinn (tied for first place), with Burks, Hamilton and Morgan a close second. I bought my first copy of Weird Tales about four years ago, while waiting for a suburban car as I was going to deliver a lecture in a neighboring town, and I have never missed a number since, for many of your contributions surpass Poe at his best.”

Paul Kerlsson Johnstone, of St. Louis, writes to The Eyrie: “Why not have more stories like The Lost Race (in your January issue), dealing with the people of Britain before the Norman Conquest? Certainly many things must have happened while Piet, Scot, Roman, Briton, Saxon, Jute, Angle and Dane struggled for mastery, that would make fiction look tame. I have an idea that many of the tales of that time (about 500 B. C. to 1000 A. D.) which are dismissed as mere myths are cold truth. Certainly archeology has found these old legends to be startlingly accurate in many ways.”

Writes Sherlock R. Hope, of Jacksonville, Florida: “Edmond Hamilton, in his own realm of writing, is head and shoulders above all others. I con¬ sider his The Metal Giants a masterpiece of his type of fiction. I look for¬ ward to future issues of Weird Tales, which, I sincerely hope, will bring more such stories from this author’s pen.”

We offered to give the original typescript of Seabury Quinn’s cover-de¬ sign story in the February issue, autographed by the author, for the most helpful and constructive letter sent to The Eyrie discussing the stories in that issue. The typescript was won by Fred W. Fischer, Jr., of Knoxville, Ten¬ nessee.

Readers, your favorite story in the February issue, as shown by your votes, was The Atomic Conquerors, by Edmond Hamilton, and your second choice was The Man Who Cast No Shadow, by Seabury Quinn. What is your favorite story in the present issue?

MY FAVORITE STORIES IN THE APRIL WEIRD TALES ARE: Story Remarks

( 1 ).

( 2 ).

(3).

I do not like the following stories:

(1) - Why? _

(2) - -

It will help as to know what kind of stories you want in Weird Tales if you will fill out this coupon and mail it to The Eyrie, Weird Tales, 450 E. Ohio St., Chicago, Ill.

r ----

• Reader’s name and address:



OLD MONEY WANTED ££ sr C E ^„ H .

dreds of Old or Odd Coins. Keep All Old Mon¬ ey, it may bo very valuable. Send 10 cents for New Illustrated Coin Value Book, 4xG. Guaran¬ teed Prices. Get Posted. We pay cash.

CLARKE COIN CO., W. T. Dept., LeRcy, N. Y.

■ | a #%|fl*Dice,$5.00; Cards, $1.25; Inks, $1.50; mOlj|I«Magic Fluid for Transparents, $3.00; ■nnwi u sllck Aoe cards, $1.25; Factory Readers, $1.00. Sales Boards, etc. Catalog 10c. CENTRAL NOVELTY COMPANY,

112 N. La Salle Street, Chicago, Ill.

SONG POEM WRITERS

SEND FOR MY PROPOSITION

TOBACCO CurfdOr NoPax

SCIENTIFIC ROMANCES, MYSTERY TALES

for sale. “Invisible Man,” by Wells, $1.35. “Time Machine,” Wells. “Dracula,” vampire story, $1.25. Interesting Catalogue. Fresno Book Shop, 1949 Tuolumne Street, Fresno, Calif.

cock, Wisconsin.

I. Santschi, Glenellyn, Ill.

GET THE HABIT!

Why run the chance of missing an issue of WEIRD TALES? ■

Subscribe Now!

$2.60 a year in the United States; $3.00 in Canada

Explorers Into Infinity

(Continued from page 450)

—it isn’t too big yet—but it will be in a minute. Let go of me!”

“No! No, Brett! The shock as you went in—you couldn’t take it so suddenly. It might hurt you—kill you. And the switch is too big for your strength.”

It was out of control—this mon¬ ster, growing, inexorably growing— it was pushing at the house—a great white giant pushing gently but with an irresistible power at the little toy house beside it. I could see the house shifting on its foundations; a corner of it tilted downward.

“Brett! Father! Try it now. One last try.” Martt and Frannie had the pole again in position. With a last despairing effort we raised it; slid it up over the giant table-edge; caught the wide flaring side of the giant switch. Pushing—despairing¬ ly ; five of us, pigmies struggling there at that giant threshhold. The switch moved. Our pole held its place; the switch moved farther, clicked with a tremendous snap that reverberated about us. The growth of the monster was checked. It stood there serene, triumphant, with the little house, tilted, but still standing bravely beside it.

White, shaken, we ceased our ef¬ forts. Frannie gasped, “We—we only wanted to make it a normal size —so you could load it up with the furniture and things. But it—it got away from us..”

Dr. Gryce said, “It is a lesson— perhaps a lesson which we needed forced upon us.” He gestured to the great quiescent white building which had spread itself over most of the devastated garden. “A lesson,” he repeated. “We must guard this



power carefully. In unskilled or un¬ scrupulous hands it is a power for evil almost unthinkable. This mon¬ ster here—if it had gotten beyond us —if we had lost its control—this Could destroy the Universe!”

CHAPTER 3

EXPLORERS INTO INFINITY

“XTou think we’ve got everything

a in it?” Frannie asked anxious¬ lyWe had gotten the vehicle back to a size normal to our own stature; and all day had been working to equip it. The instrument room—its Space and Time and size mechanisms were complete. I had learned now that it was to be transported through Space by very similar principles to those commonly in use—a controlled attraction or repulsion of the faces of its cube for the heavenly body nearest to it; in effect, an intensifica¬ tion—a neutralization—or reversal at will of the electronic force which flows between and mutually attracts all material bodies; the force which once—in centuries past—was called gravitation. It needed no word of explanation. Its velocity and dis¬ tance dials, its direction indicators, were familiar, though rather more in¬ tricate than those I had seen in the Interplanetary Service. Beyond that, there was a bank of dials upon which a changing size was recorded—with the vehicle’s present starting dimen¬ sions to be the standard unit. And other dials for its Time-change. Of these there were two distinct sets. One, a record of the normal Timechange, inevitable to a change of size; another, a comparison of that Time-distance with the normal Timeprogress of the earth, so that the Time-position of the vehicle into the earth’s Past or Future could be seen.

In a subsidiary instrument-room was a variety of modem astronomical

THE AQUARIAN DIET

A Scientifically Balanced Menu for each meal of the entire week, selected espe¬ cially for your own case—Try it and note improvement.—Price One Dollar.

THE AQUARIAN INSOLES Relieve Rheumatism, Poor Circulation and Weak, Nervous Conditions. Price One Dollar. Write for literature today. The Aquarian Circle, Elkhart, Ind.

PIMPLES

cleared up—often in 24 hours. To prove you can be rid of pimples, blackheads, acne eruptions on the face or body; barbers’ itch, eczema, enlarged pores, oily or shiny skin,

the Iom i« mine WRITS TODAY

E.S. GIVENS, 466 Chemical Bldg., Kansas City, Mo.

MIDGET NAME CARDS

Trade Mark Reg.tJ. S. Pat. Off.

THE LATEST NOVELTY SOc. Per Book

GOVT.

POSITIONS

MEN WANTING FOREST RANGER, RAILway mail clerk. Internal revenue agent, postoffice clerk, carrier and field clerk positions. $1500 to $4500 year. Write for free particulars.

MO KANE, DEPT. 204, DENVER, COLO.



BSBMMa i

MEW improved 1926 double-action a JLN models priced for quick sale. “ Genome white boneite handles free if yon 1 order n^ht away. Mention number of gun.

. »11.95

'"°?7.9S

io- SB-neautifully made seven-shot auto¬ matic withimprovedsafety;25 cal. $6.95

JpWO MANY CHILDREN 1

SSS&Avasr' Bh

WEAK MEN

Banish Weakness and Enjoy Renewed Vigor and Virility. Send now for our circular “6.” It’s free and mailed in sealed enve¬ lope.

ELVEE COMPANV, Desk D,

2919 W. North Ave., Baltimore, Md.

apparatus; the myrdoscope, and a receiver for an aural ray which, as a guide to Brett, Dr. Gryce was to send from earth. Of this, in more detail, they later explained.

In a smaller room were the appa¬ ratus for air renewal, the making of various necessary gases, water and synthetic foods; a store-room of pro¬ visions; rooms furnished comfortably so that the vehicle was complete in its living quarters. A thousand details, until at the last I felt as Frannie did —wondering how we could have failed to overlook a score of things we had intended to do.

It was nightfall when we finished; and all that evening we spent check¬ ing up the equipment. Dr. Gryce’s home had not been seriously dam¬ aged by the morning’s mishap; and as midnight approached we gathered in the little observation and instru¬ ment room he had built in its upper story. Brett and Martt, it had been decided, were to make the journey; we others were to watch and wait. It seemed the more difficult role. All that evening Dr. Gryce had been in¬ creasingly silent, careworn of man¬ ner and aspect. And though Brett was excited in his mature, repressed fashion—and Martt frankly exuber¬ ant—I saw that little Frannie was solemn, perturbed as her father.

It was a soft, brilliant, cloudless night, with no moon to pale the gleaming stars. And at last every detail was settled, and the midnight hour we had set for departure was at hand. We went forth with them to the waiting vehicle. There was nothing more to say. They stood— Brett and Martt—in the opened door¬ way as we gathered about them.

“Well — good-bye, Father — good¬ bye, Frannie dear.” Brett held her close; then released her, pushed her away. “Good-bye, Frank.” His hand-clasp was warm and steady.



Martt was jocular, but now at the last I could hear a tremble to his voice. “When we get to that girl out there—well, I’m going to tell her how interested you all are in her.” His laugh was high-pitched. “That is, if we can handle that giant.”

“Good-bye, Brett. Good-bye, Martt.”

Our words were so futile, so inade¬ quate to the surge of feeling within us! The door slid closed upon them. The vehicle, not to change size until it was far into the realms of outer interstellar Space, beyond our crowd¬ ing little planets—lifted gently, soared upward, slid away from us, a glistening white shape up there in the quiet starlight.

Gravely, silently, with what sink¬ ing of heart I could only imagine, Dr. Gryce stood regarding it. Be¬ side me Frannie was crying softly.

Explorers into infinity! And they were gone, to encounter—what?

e voyage through Space and

v fr\T 4-La crifl in +V.o4- woctoi*

The marvels of „. w . _

Time, and the search for the girl in that world, to rescue her from her danger, will be de¬ scribed next month.

Coming!

The Time-Raider

By Edmond Hamilton

A startling four-part serial by the author of “The Metal Giants” and “The Atomic Conquerors”—a tale of an entity from thousands of years in the future that reaches back through Time to seize its vic¬ tims. No more fascinating wordpicture has ever been drawn than the thrilling narrative of the pur¬ suit of the Raider through the future of this world, as the Sun grows cold and the Earth withers.

Watch for this story in

LUCK

All around you there.is abundant Success, Wealth and Happiness. Get Your Share. The "LUCKY SEVEN” Secret Rules are tree to all who wear this Rare and beauti¬ ful Talisman Ring. On each side of this Odd and Charming Ring is moulded the figure of Fortuna — The "Goddess of Luck” symbolic of Success Triumphant. Ancient belief, that her emblem brings suc¬ cess to wearer in Love. Games Business. Health and everything. Genuine 14-K Antique Gold S. Ring mounted with 32 facet, one carat Radio-Flash Mexican Diamond type gem. Wonderful reproducion of a $500 Genuine Diamond in brilliancy* Cutand Flashing Rainbow Fire. Guaranteed 20 years. Send strip of paper to show finger size and we will send this wonderful ring. On arrival pay the post¬ man only $3.68, plus postage. Nothing more to pay. Yours to keep, wear and enjoy forever. Wear 7 day9 and 7 nights—follow the 7 rules that we send you.-If not satisfied your money quickly returned. Address Radio-Flash Gem Importing Co., St. Paul. Minn. Dipt. 37-LI.

What Do You Want?

Whatever it is we can help you get it. Just give us the chance by writing for

“Clouds Dispelled”

Absolutely Free. You will be delighted. Act today! Write NOW!!

THE BROTHERHOOD OF LIGHT

Dept. O. Box 1525, Los Angeles, Calif.

BIG 25c BARGAIN

I^Comic Cards; nappy Rang Parodies; 1 t

Fortune Telling ,

Clobef crystal° o2ftcSIf

S^-45

Hindu Fortune IHlinir Cards. 1 &*nd26o tot postage, pay $2.46 when delivered.*

MSSSEIM

! COMPLETE COURSE, i,



BUST DEVELOPED

GUARANTEED 'TWO DOLLAR *

14-DAY EDET TREATMENT flYLIj

S poa send s DIME toward expenses. Largo Aluminum Box of my Wonit"w orth‘{ o c' t" o^rSuf

If not. your dime back by first mall. Address NOW, with ten cents only Madame C. I. Williams. Buffalo, N. Y.

SEX EXPLAINED/

SEXUAL^LOVE AND LIFE/

SEX EXPLAINED!

“THE SCIENCE OF A NEW FIFE,”

~ 's book tells in plain language sex sect

Dr.

Cowan’s____ ______

worth hundreds of dollars. Explains the truth about love, marriage, childbirth, health, hy¬ giene. diseases, sexual anatomy and physiology, birth control, etc. Over 310 pages. Illustrated. Cloth-bound. Price, including two other valu¬ able sex books, $3.50 postpaid. (C. O. D. 19c extra.) Mailed in plain wrapper. Satisfaction guaranteed.

Globe Publishing Co., Div. 206, Syracuse, N. 1.

The Ruler of Destiny

(Continued from page 480)

toward him from the pink wall. Ten¬ tacles of death reached out toward him. He knew full well now what his end must be. One moment he looked out from the top of his labora¬ tory upon the ruin he had wrought, saw that his world had come to chaos, and all the unutterable terror of a world ages old rose up within his soul, beating upon his reason like a blight of infinity. Ponderously he rushed down the stairs, out the door and into the desolate street before his workhouse. The stench of the dead was in his nostrils. Purple fingers of horror reached out toward him; pur¬ ple that changed to black. The wrath of God was descending upon him in that black cloud hovering above, inky, ever increasing in magnitude, crush¬ ing down upon his tortured soul, sur¬ rounding him in impalpable gloom like a cloak of blackness.

A tongue of purple licked through the air, hovered above him. His huge face was gray with terror, his eyes filled with panic. He tried to run; fell; rose to his feet; staggered to¬ ward the pink veil which held out the purple, trying to hold it back. Breath coming in hoarse sobs, eyes aflame, then blinded with tears, cheeks jounc¬ ing, he tore at the pink as though it were a tangible thing —passed through!

The fingers of the purple night swept in upon him, gladly, one might think (though there was none left to see); tentacles of purple swathed him, clasped him, crushed him.

A moment of unutterable terror, an instant of fiery pain, a burst of vivid memory as the gates to hell yawned. Then the Master of Destiny was no more.



The Endocrine Monster

(Continued from page 474)

Janis finally. He had tried to ease her last moments, but there was lit¬ tle he could do. “But merciful God! What havoc! Bonita dead! Three of our bunch—no!”—ho looked over where Lassignae lay limp against the bole—“no, four! And she’d have gotten us, too, perhaps, if it hadn’t been for the fer de lance! Well, it’s overl”

“Yes,” said Amheimer, his voice soft and uncertain. “It’s over. Our whole expedition is over. Don Ra¬ mon and Connaughton held the key to the plans. And they are dead! ’ ’

“Well, then it’s ended,” said Jan¬ is. “Except to bury our friends and this—this—afflicted woman! ’ ’


“TXTell?” I questioned as Dr.

’ ’ Wilkie finished. “What’s the answer? What does it-?”

“Wait a moment,” he interrupted. “Before you ask questions let me show you a passage from a recent book.”

He went over to one of the shelves, withdrew a book, and marked one of the pages. “ This book deals with the endocrines or internal secretions, of which you doubtless know. Before showing you this passage let me ex¬ plain just one point. The adrenal or suprarenal gland lies just above the kidney, and anatomically has two parts, an outer cortex or shell, and an inner medulla or pulp. The medulla gives off adrenalin, which regulates blood pressure in all parts of the body through action on the blood vessels. The cortex gives off an unknown secretion which seems to have a remarkable influence. When it is diseased, certain: curious things

WOND Io^e T h H t E urv

toun d'od^the* world. M RevcftS°ttie

ptri ooil

BREAK THAT TOBACCO HABIT BEFORE IT BREAKS YOU

Cigarette, Cigar. Pipe, Chewing and Snuff habit broken easily and Inexpensively with "EX TERM O BAC." Positively nothing else like it. Interesting particulars FREE. Write today. ELVKE COMPANY, Dept. D,

3919 W. North Avo., Baltimore, Md.

MAGIC

easily learned with our modern tricks and instruc¬ tions. Astonish others. Packet of secrets and new illustrated catalog of magic for stage and par¬ lor. 10c. Piedmont Novelty Shop, Box 631,

A Baby la Your Home



Next Month

The

Master of Doom

By DONALD EDWARD KEYHOE

A weird tale that sweeps 500 years into the future, when the vaulting ambition of an evil genius remakes the world to his own lik¬ ing. The violent destruction of America by natural forces un¬ leashed by the Master of Doom; the subjugation of the earth by one man, who carves out for himself a broad Earthband surrounded by water.

T ike dark birds, the airplanes of -■-'the last Americans drive in from the lost outer regions of the earth, and float toward the Cen¬ tral Palace. A voice from the air sounds the doom of the usurpers and the Americans come to deathgrips with the Ruler of the Earthband. A story replete with start¬ ling possibilities. It will be print¬ ed complete in the

May Issue of


The Unique Magazine On Sale April 1

Ctig endMailjhisCoupot^ JodayJ^

Enclosed find $1 for special five months subscription to "Weird Tales" to begin with the May issue. (Special offer void unless remittance la accompanied by coupon.)

City

happen. Now read what I have indi¬ cated.”

He placed the volume before me. And this is what I read:

“The main course of cortical disease proceeds as follows:

“a. In early cases there is precocious sexuality, adiposity in the pelvic region, re¬ markable muscular strength, recalling the mfonts Hercules of the French writers. In girls, there is a marked tendency toward maleness. Later on the fatty tissue is lost, the children grow thin and die of exhaus¬ tion.

“b. In young women the disease devel¬ ops with phenomenal muscular strength and endurance, assertiveness and even pug¬ nacity of behavior, and excessive sexuality; this stage is followed by the appearance of male characters, such as beardedness, gen¬ eral hairiness, and hair on chest and abdo¬ men. Here we are reminded of the ‘strong women’ and ‘bearded ladies’ of the circuses and side-shows. Later the muscular strength is replaced by excessive weakness, and final¬ ly death from exhaustion ensues.”

Thus far I read. “Jove!” I ex¬ claimed. “Then this woman—this Bonita—was-1”

“Precisely,” said Dr. Wilkie. “She was suffering from cortical dis¬ ease. The symptoms are clear. She was really helpless, driven inexorably by a malady over which she had no control. Like the Nuremberg maiden, she crashed those that she em¬ braced. ’ ’

“Humph!” I mused. “And so your guinea-pig-?”

“Yes, I have experimented with it, causing an excessive or altered secre¬ tion by the use of certain injections. The symptoms are the same—heavy buttocks, phenomenal strength, pug¬ nacity, even the appearance of male characters. The last I figure to be the turning point. This animal should before very long grow weak and die from exhaustion. Looking back at the experience with Bonita I feel that she had reached her turn¬ ing point also, and would have died in typical exhaustion. This experi¬ ment has helped me understand her case, the case of Bonita.”

aracte

ealed

White Magic

and its Laws

A Remarkable Book

LOANED To All Seekers For Power

Unless you are truly sincere and anxious to study and gradually become developed in a superior manner, do not ask for this book. Address in confidence, giving name and address in a letter (not on post card):

AMORC TEMPLE

Rosicrucian Square,

TAMPA, FLORIDA.

LOVERS

of Mystery Fiction

Will Have to Hurry if They Want to Take Advantage of This Amaz¬ ing Offer

Here They Are

1 Crimson Poppies—Dr. Howes evolves a fiendish plot to in¬ herit the wealth of a lunatic

*

'fsem

■ IS-rS

'IS?


MYSTERY

ADVENTURE

DETECTIVE

BOOKS

1 .00

for All

SUPPLY NEAR EXHAUSTION

POPULAR FICTION PUBLISHING COMPANY

[THE END]
