============================================================
Weird Tales
Volume , Number 
Date: April 1930
============================================================
============================================================
TABLE OF CONTENTS

  1. "A Song out of Midian_Robert E" by Howard
  2. "story by Mr" by Quinn about the cat-people was by far the best he has done and
============================================================
============================================================
ASONG OUT OF MIDIAN_ROBERT E
by Howard
============================================================
downward, down the slope of the great mountain whose summit rose darkly behind and above us, its great bulk looming black against the black sky’s scattered stars.

A Song out of Midian

By ROBERT E. HOWARD

These will I give to you, Astair: an armlet of frozen gold,

Gods cut from the living rock, and carven gems in an amber crock,

And a purple woven Tyrian smock, and wine from a pirates’ hold.

Kings shall kneel at your feet, Astair, emperors kiss your hand;

Captive girls for your joy shall dance, slim and straight as a striking lance, Who tremble and bow at your mildest glance and kneel at your least command.

Galleys shall break the crimson seas seeking delights for you;

With silks and silver}' fountain gleams I will weave a world that glows and seems

A shimmering mist of rainbow dreams, scarlet and white and blue.

Or is it glory you wish, Astair, the crash and the battle-flame?

The wands shall break on the warship’s sail and Death ride free at my horse’s tail,

Till all the tribes of the earth shall wail at the terror of your name,

1 will break the thrones of the world, Astair, and fling them at your feet; Flame and banners and doom shall fly, and my iron chariots rend the sky, Whirlwind on whirlwind heaping high, death and a deadly sleet.

Why are you sad and still, Astair, counting my words as naught?

From slave to queen I have raised you high, and yet you stare with a weary eye,

And never the laugh has followed the sigh, since you from your land were brought.

Do you long for the lowing herds, Astair? For the desert’s dawning white? For the hawk-eyed tribesmen’s coarse hard fare, and the brown firm limbs that are hard and bare,

And the eagle’s rocks and the lion’s lair, and the tents of the Israelite?

1 have never chained your limbs, Astair; free as the winds that whirl Go if you wish. The doors are wide, since less to you is an empire’s pride Than the open lands where the tribesmen ride, wooing the desert girl.

7/,p BtACK->(€\AMB

The Story Thus Far

10. The Room of the Disk

MOMENTS passed, and no sound or sign was given them that they were observed. Both felt that they were under surveillance, though the room seemed to be empty; but as they continued to be disregarded by the royal attention, they relaxed a little and began to examine curiously the room they were in.

A dark blue circle of crystal at one end of the chamber was the first thing

RD TALKS for February



to catch their wondering gaze. Huge and sullen it glittered there, like a dim moon.'

“The disk!” exclaimed Sanderson. “It’s what we saw in the pictures— the mysterious circle of light. We’re in the very room Eden photographed in his laboratory thousands of miles away!”

He moved tentatively toward the great stone, paused an instant to see if his move should incur some demoniac outburst of anger; then, nothing happening, walked up to within a few feet of it. For a moment the scientist overwhelmed the man as he eagerly examined the huge, enigmatic-looking disk.

“The father of our rings!” he said to Neal. “Compare them.” The two stones were identical in color and appearance.

“Here, then, we have one secret cleared away after a fashion. In some manner this is a power-transmitting unit that is able to govern the thoughts of the wearers of chips from it. ” He pointed to the uneven edge of the great disk. “And here’s where the chips come from. God knows how many have been detached from here— perhaps the jewel was once twice as large. Thousands and thousands of its pieces scattered throughout the world to act as tiny receiving-sets and pick up the telepathic commands of Rez to the unsuspecting minds of their wearers! Thousands and thousands of men of authority who are as blindly the puppets of Rez as the automatons here in his own kingdom! Truly this being is king of the earth!”

“But—can that enormous thing actually be a diamond?” Neal marveled.

“There’s no doubt of it,” said Sanderson. “But the amazing thing, to me, is not its size, for that may be only a natural phenomenon. The unbelievable part is its shape, for that is artificial. Try to imagine what this diamond must have looked like in the

rough—an enormous, irregular mass of solid crystal weighing thousands of pounds. And then, with that picture in your mind, try to conceive of a way of cutting out a disk seven or eight feet across — whatever the original diameter of the stone may have been —and hardly more than an inch thick!”

“It doesn’t seem possible-”

Neal began in answer.

And then he stopped abruptly as it was revealed to them that the master of this marvelous stone was listening to all they said, was within a few yards of them. For the tingling feel of evil in the air was thickened suddenly as though generated by some diabolic dynamo that had just been turned to double speed. There was a stir behind the curtains near the disk as if something had brushed against them for a moment. And a voice come to their ears.

It was an astounding voice, an impossible, unbelievable voice, to have been heard in that heart of all the world’s wickedness. It was the sweet, soft contralto of a woman. Like a tropic sea, warm though single-toned, enchanting though almost deathly in its lack of inflection, it poured over them.

“You are right,” said the glorious voice. “It is impossible. No jewel so large could be cut so thin. The explanation lies in the fact that the diamond is, as you would term it, synthetic. I manufactured it.”

Wordlessly they stared at the disk, from behind which—or through which —the mellow-toned words were coming.

'C'or a moment Neal forgot danger, * surroundings, everything, as he listened to the voice. A flush of color came to his face, and his eyes widened helplessly as though, against all will and reason, he were being lulled to forgetfulness of purpose by the musical syllables that sounded in his ears. As the words went on he hardly



heard them for a time, lost in their mere sound.

“The jewels in your rings—one of which was so carelessly thrown into the ocean a short time ago—came from the disk as you guessed. Also, as you surmised, whoever wears one of them is my creature. Through the natural affinity of the similar pieces of crystal, and through the dominance of the larger fragment over the smaller, I am able to command utterly the persons who are in contact with them.”

Hardly realizing what he was doing, Neal found himself moving closer to the curtain near the diamond. But at the end of the first step he was stopped abruptly, powerless to make a further move. It was as though he had been subjected to a sudden stroke of paralysis! He couldn't raise his arm or move his leg. He couldn’t even turn his head. If the air about him had turned to concrete and solidified into a block with himself in the center, he could have been no more helpless.

“The history of the rings may interest you,” the calm, dead voice continued. “I had them made for twin princes in India many centuries ago. For years these rulers obeyed my orders without knowing they were under my influence, and brought their provinces to quite a satisfactory state of poverty and ruin by continual warfare. Then, following a last instruction of mine, they prepared to make war on each other. But there was in their court a man almost as acute as your Professor Eden, who deduced that the rings were responsible for some of the disturbances then shattering the realm. He managed, when my attention was turned elsewhere, to give them to a visiting sheik to take back to Arabia with him. So India passed from under my control for a short time—a very short time! But Arabia was won in its place.

“From that day on, the two rings were worn by many men in authority, passing down finally to yourselves.

The wearers of the rings have sometimes done strange things, actions they could not account for later. So the two diamonds have proved their worth to me many times over—and have performed this last service of bringing you two here as my guests. ’ ’

* ‘ Quests! ’ ’ rumbled Sanderson. He had recovered from the first shock of hearing the incongruously soft and beautiful voice, now accepting it as merely another of the obscure phenomena connected with the concealed being who was talking to them.

“But of course—guests,” answered the voice. “I invited you, in my own informal way. I made your entrance easy. And now I am showing you my hospitality. Does that not define the term precisely?”

“I’m afraid I don’t quite understand your reference to an invitation,” said the professor coldly.

“No? Then I shall be pleased to show you what I mean—and incidentally reveal to you another power of my diamond disk that may divert you.” Calm as the flow of time, the voice sounded from the depths of the stone; cold as the stone itself, but intimate as a whisper. “Behold—your invitation. ’ ’

With a suddenness that made them gasp, the light was drained from the big, draped room. In the darkness they saw the disk show sullen and faintly luminous. Gradually its luminosity increased, and a picture appeared on its polished surface. The picture was that of Neal asleep in a small chamber that was obviously the stateroom of a ship.

Still too moved by the fascination of the voice to be more than faintly impressed by the marvel revealed to them, Neal saw himself stir uneasily in his sleep, and slowly raise himself to a sitting position as though in answer to a command. His eyes were wide open but unseeing, and his left hand raised itself until it was stretched rigidly forth as though groping for something just out of



reach. In the picture the blue diamond glittered, faintly on his finger.

After an instant, moving with slow, deliberate precision, his pictured self got out of the bunk and walked toward the open port-hole, left hand extended first as though a cord were pulling at his wrist. Through the port-hole his hand and arm were thrust, and after them his head and shoulders. For an instant he was struggling to force his way through. Then the wide eyes blinked, light and consciousness returned to them, and he backed hastily away from the aperture with fear expressing itself in his face.

The picture wavered and the disk returned to its normal state.

“My first invitation,” came the beautiful voice, soft in the darkness. “It was to make you receptive to the consequence of this, my second move. ’ ’

Again the disk brightened and presented a picture; and Sanderson saw himself back on the deck of the steamer, tramping along beside the rail. He paused a moment, not far from another figure; and then suddenly began to struggle for his life as though a dozen men had materialized from thin air and were trying to push him over the deck’s edge and into the ocean. The watching figure gazed, bewildered; and then the enigmatic struggle was over, and the professor’s blue diamond whirled into the sea.

“In thinking I was attempting to remove you from my path by forcing you to commit suicide, you were mistaken. I merely wished you to excite the curiosity of your young friend, and also to bring you together by the natural astonishment you would share at the possession of duplicate rings. My experiment in psychology was successful. You joined forces, and you are here. My invitation was accepted.”

“But, you said something about making our entrance easy,” said the professor with a frown.

“Yes. It seemed that you needed help in your discovery of the gateway to my realm. I followed your search in my disk. When it appeared that you were too stupid to find a path into the kingdom of Rez, I caused a way to be opened for you by forcing a section of rock over the underground lake to collapse-”

“How could you do that?” demanded Sanderson quickly.

“By measured vibration,” answered the voice. “As you know, every material has its own vibration point. By exposing any given substance to measured waves of vibration, and by synchronizing the outside waves with the intrinsic vibration timing of the substance, it may be disintegrated at will. There are, in a cavern near here, ninety small vibrating-machines, each one tuned to a pitch that corresponds to the vibration point in each single element— there are ninety elements, I have discovered. These machines can be combined in number and harmony to match the number of elements in any substance I want disintegrated, regardless of distance. By pressing a lever I set in motion an infinitesimal earthquake that can cause to fly to pieces whatever material I desire destroyed.

“It was by this process that the slide was caused that opened a path for you to my kingdom. I might also tell you that, after you rvere safely through, I tuned my vibrating-machines according to a chemical analysis of the rock heap above us which you know as Block Mountain, caused another and larger slide, and buried the exposed entrance again. This was not to avoid invasion, for of course the heap can be removed quite easily. It was merely to persuade any who might know of your departure that you are now dead. With that conviction there will be no desire on their part to pursue rescue courses that might embarrass me. ’ ’

“You say that our separate at510


tempts at suicide on board ship were only deliberate efforts on your part to bring us into your power,” observed Sanderson. ‘‘How about the hysteria you caused to seize Eden the first time he put on your ring? Was he also being invited? ’ ’

‘ ‘ That was a genuine effort to stop Professor Eden from his work of exposing me,” answered the sweet, level voice. ‘‘Eventually, after he had smashed all of his records and all the traces of his work, I meant to force him to kill himself. Unfortunately I began by prompting him to ruin his edograph. That instrument was more precious to him than his own life, and even my will was not strong enough to compel him to destroy it. His repulsion to the idea of smashing it was so strong that it broke the thread of connection through my diamond for the moment, and he escaped his fate — the only time I have ever failed. Later, when I could have killed him easily, it occurred to me that—inasmuch as he was keeping his experiment a secret— he might do me the favor of providing a guest for my entertainment, and still work me no harm. My hope was justified. Through his efforts not one guest alone, but two, have considerately sought me out to present me with amusement and, a little later, to offer me a source of scientific instruction.”

‘‘How will you be amused by us?” asked Sanderson bitterly. “Have you some unique form of torture it will please you to watch us endure? ’ ’

“Not at all. You will merely give me the pleasure of your company for awhile—I am only sorry the time is to be so short—and thus serve to relieve the monotony of my existence. You see, I have had no guests but you for over eight eenturies.

“At one time, over eight hundred years ago, it came to my attention that an Arab in the household of one of the more important sheiks was far ahead of his era in surgical knowl-

edge. Needing his specialized service for myself, I had him presented with a blue diamond from the disk and led him to visit me here. He was a brilliant man. A year of my teaching enabled him to perform the operation I required. He is still with me, but his presence grows tiresome. Your arrival is most welcome.”

“You say he came here eight hundred years ago!” Sanderson exclaimed.

“Yes.”

“But in that event you are more than eight centuries old-”

“Much older,” answered the golden voice. “The Pyramids were built in my youth.”

There was a little silence during which the professor glanced about the room—at the Roman sarcophagus in the far comer, at the shields and javelins.

‘ ‘ If you were born so long ago, ’ ’ he said at last, “how is it that all visible traces of the outside world here, including your language, dates back to comparatively modem Roman times?”

“Because that is the time I formed my kingdom. At that time, comparatively modern as you say and previous to which I had lived alone, I came here and began to gather around me a small force of men. I recruited these with outlawed Roman legionaries, beginning with raids on neighboring towns and isolated villas near the hot baths. Later I shut my people up, started the task of hollowing this cavern system out of the rock, and began the government that eventually resulted in my present self-supporting, automatic kingdom.”

“But, the antiquity of the Pyramids! ’ ’ protested Sanderson. ‘ ‘ For a human being to live so long... impossible! ’ ’

“It is not at all impossible. The secret of indefinitely prolonged life has been four times discovered and four times lost by the race of mankind. I contrived to learn it from a priest of Egypt when I was still a



young man, and have prolonged my life ever since. It will be as many more thousands of years before I finally die.”

“And you are able to extend the life of others as well as your own life?”

“Yes. Did I not say that the Arab surgeon, who is known as Number Ten, has lived with me here for eight hundred years? Do not look so doubtful of my age. The proof is surely apparent—how could I, or any other, acquire in one ordinary lifetime the knowledge necessary to perform such advanced scientific miracles as you have seen in this room?”

“Granting that you are as old as you say,” Sanderson replied with a deliberate sneer on his lips, “perhaps you will be kind enough to tell us how you have done it. What is the secret of your eternal life? ’ ’

“I have not said it was eternal—it is merely preserved. And I can not entirely explain to you for the reason that, with all your scientific knowledge, you would not be able to comprehend its intricacy. However, I can tell you that it has nothing to do with any so-called elixir, or any chemical preparation, as you and Professor Eden supposed. It is the natural product of a force no more marvelous nor unusual than electricity but at present unguessed by your own science. I can only inform you that it is induced by periodic exposure to certain properties in the rays of the sun which, when separated from other, neutralizing rays, preserve the cells of the body from deterioration...

“That must surely be a lie!” the professor interrupted, his manner one of calculated insult, as though he hoped to anger Rez into continuing his revelations. “The rays of the sun! What have you—hundreds of yards under the surface of the earth —to do with the rays of the sun?”

For a little time there was silence

as though the powerful master of the disk had allowed the professor’s badgering to annoy him. Then the voice flowed out as even and passionless as before.

“The sun,” said the voice, “shines here more often than it does on earth. Indeed, the earth is a dark and gloomy place in comparison with my kingdom. For here the sun shines eternally, night and day!

“You are standing in clear sunlight at this moment, although you are hundreds of yards underground even as you say. The rays of these metal plates—that now illuminate this room —are the true rays of the sun. I will explain it to your somewhat limited intellects if I can.

“Long ago I found out that light rays are capable of penetrating all matter. The visible beams may be deflected, as from a mirrored surface; they may be filtered by any opaque substance and lose their visibility; but the true light rays go directly on in almost undiminished force. Thus when an object—the globe of the earth, for instance—is placed in the path of light rays, the luminosity of those rays, the quality that makes them visible, may be deflected or dissipated; but the light rays themselves continue on and on indefinitely in the form of invisible light—black light, if you please to describe it so. In this manner, day and night, the light of the sun is continually filtering entirely through the ball of earth and out into space beyond.

“There is no light without heat. For centuries the race of man, in attempting to generate light without heat, have been trying the impossible. They have been able to generate light that apparently has a smaller percentage of heat — but this lack of warmth is only apparent. The heat remains, in a form less pei’ceptible to instruments and sensory organs, perhaps, but potentially as undiminished as ever. To illustrate what I mean, I



might cite the electric current as a good parallel.

“In an electrical cui’rent you may greatly decrease the voltage without altering the potential content of the current in the slightest, and you can redevelop the voltage at will by transformers: In light rays you may greatly decrease the heat content without altering its potential energy in the least—and you could redevelop the heat at will, if you only knew how. Why, in addition to receiving light from the stars, you on earth could have heat as well—yes, and electrical energy, too—if you only knew how to differentiate it from the light rays.

“Hero, then, we have light—and heat as a natural corollary—continually piercing through and through the ball of earth. With potential heat and light from the sun at my command, no matter how far underground I might choose to live, it only remained for me to find a way of transforming it from its invisibility and its intangibility back to its original form of visibility and perceptible warmth. I found that way.

“There is a substance capable of transforming the invisible light rays to visibility. This is a metal—one that you have not yet discovered— which I have named rinay. With this rinay ore concentrated into metallic form, as I have devised with these plates, I catch the direct light and heat of the sun that continually penetrates this section of earth. So night and day I am lighted and warmed by the sun itself, retaining a far more even flow than you above, who allow yourselves to be deprived of some of it by every cloud that sails the wind.”

S ilently the professor stared at the plates set into the ceiling that were focusing the rays of the sun through hundreds of yards of solid rock, and shedding them in even warmth and illumination over the chamber. Then he frowned at the disk.

“There is another thing that puzzles me, even in the midst of your explanation-” he began.

“Probably there are many things capable of puzzling you, ’ ’ interrupted the voice, its smooth lack of inflection contrasting strongly with the mockery of the words. “But what is it? I am honored that so great a scientist as yourself should come to me for instruction. I shall answer if possible.”

“This has nothing to do with science, ’ ’ said the professor, stung by the taunt. “It is a personal bewilderment: You say that you are of ancient Egypt, and the rest of your subjects speak Latin. How is it that you know the modern language of English?”

“To read the thoughts of all men— as I must do if I would accomplish my great purpose—I must know all languages. Oh, yes,” the voice flowed on in toneless mockery, “I have a life purpose, too, though I do not train my body to it daily as you did under the tutelage of Professor Eden. As if your body, though ten times as powerful, could overcome my mind!”

“And what is your life purpose?” inquired Sanderson, ignoring the mockery as calmly as he could.

“Perhaps I shall tell you that— perhaps not. If you are fated to be my guests for a sufficient length of time I may show you a real glimpse of the power that is mine now, and the more enormous power that is to be mine very soon. Meanwhile as my guests you will make yourselves at home in my poor kingdom. You may inquire freely about anything you wish to know or see-”

“I wish to see you!” interrupted the professor, staring at the concealing curtains behind the disk.

“That is impossible.”

Sanderson clenched his great fists. “ I ’ll make it possible, then! If you're behind that curtain ”

He sprang toward the disk. But before he could reach it, he was stopped. Around him, as around Neal, was abruptly, set the intangible, immovTHE BLACK MONARCH


able pressure—as though the air about him were concrete which had solidified into a block with himself constricted in the center of it.

“As you see,” commented the exquisite voice, “it is—impossible.”

“You devil!” panted Sanderson, struggling to free himself.

“Devil?” the sweet voice cut in on his words. “You have formed a curiipus conception of me as a being purely evil.

“What is evil? As nearly as it may be put into words, it is that which results in the greatest harm to the greatest number. You think my life is a perfect example of that, but you are wrong. My life is being used to attain the greatest good for the greatest number. Under my rule, contentment is the aim always in view.

“You have seen for yourselves how contented my subjects are. They are never sick; they are never hungry. They have not intellectual griefs, for they have no intellects to receive such things. There is no poverty nor spirit of rebellion. There is no spirit at all, in fact; and a man is always most contented when his spirit has been completely broken and he accepts the lowest as a promise that he can go no lower. With this in mind, you can see that I am a power for good and not for evil. You might even call me benevolent....”

“Benevolent!” exclaimed Neal, tearing himself away from the thralldom of the glorious voice for an instant. “Benevolent-” His voice

trailed off into silence as he inclined his head again to listen to the mellow syllables flowing from the diamond disk.

“Possibly you are thinking of your experience in my cave of the water snakes,” crooned the voice. “I assure you this was a mistake. You were only put there through the stupidity of my lieutenant who first discovered you. He did not know you were a spy from the world above. You were merely caught in the web of my discipline:

Your helmet was not worn at the precise angle, and you were otherwise non-conformant. The overseer therefore assumed you were a workman in need of suppression. At this instant he is balancing on the ledge you occupied, in punishment of his mistake.”

“And you call that benevolence!” said Sanderson. “You mold your creatures into unthinking machines, and then punish them for lack of intelligence. If you ever allowed them to think for themselves-”

“They might think dangerous thoughts,” was the smooth interruption. “No, the greatest good for the greatest number does not permit of intelligence. Humanity must be made stupid and mechanical, forced into animal discipline, for its own benefit.”

“You’re indeed generous to do the thinking of others for them!” commented Sanderson. “And when does your royal benevolence intend to have us executed?”

“You will not be executed at all, - ’ was the answer. “You are not to die —that is, not precisely.”

“Not to die, precisely?” echoed the professor. “You speak in riddles. What do you mean by—not precisely?”

“You will soon discover for yourselves what the meaning is. For the moment I will only say that yours is a glorious destiny. You’ll be used, as rats are used in an experimental laboratory, to help forward the day when all men are happy exactly as my men of Rez are now.”

“But-”

“You will retire to your prison,” said the soft voice. “I only repeat that it is not death you have to face. Merely a change from life—to existence!”

The guard leader appeared in the curtained doorway. The queer paralysis that held their bodies was relaxed. By the side of the leader they went down the stairs, Sanderson baffled in his puzzling inability to leap



behind the disk, and Neal walking in a dream spun by the clear, sweet voice.

11. Behind the Disk

I n the rooms set apart for them as “guests” the professor paced restlessly back and forth. The fiasco he had dreaded had come to pass. In the presence of Rez, almost able to touch him, he had been held powerless by his inhuman will. It was certain that Rez had been behind the curtain that brushed the back of the disk less than three strides away—and he had been unable to take those three strides! Was this to be the end of his long struggle—to reach the very throne room of the Black King and there be fixed as helplessly as a fly in amber? He swung his big arms in savage impotence. In some manner he must overcome that trance-like spell cast over his muscles by his opponent!

On one of the metal benches Neal sat listless and preoccupied, brooding over the audience they had just concluded.

There in that underground hell he had paradoxically heard a heavenly voice. Reason told him that it came from the evil being who was the evil genius of the whole earth, and who was the indirect murderer of his father. Nevertheless, the spell of the glorious voice persisted. In memory he heard it again, purely feminineseeming, as passionless as a perfect phonograph and yet giving the impression of having issued from a soft white throat.

“So Rez is a woman!” he exclaimed. “And with what a voice!”

“We don’t know that,” contradicted Sanderson, turning to frown at him. “The guard leader told me that ‘Rez is surely a god who speaks with many voices. ’ The voice might belong to one of the women of the kingdom.”

“That doesn’t seem reasonable,” Neal demurred.

“No, and it doesn’t seem reasonable

that we should be standing in clear sunlight here in this underground burrow, either. But we are. No doubt Rez had some reason to speak through the lips of a dead woman-”

“Dead woman!” echoed Neal, half rising to his feet.

* ‘ The voice carried a hint of death to me. Didn’t it to you? ’ ’

Neal was silent a moment. Then, “Is that the voice you heard outside the door when you were first brought here?”

“I don’t know. Oh, forget the voice, Neal! We have more important things to think about—how we can overcome the owner of it, for example. ’ ’ He resumed his restless pacing.

“Most of the power of Rez lies in his diamond disk. We know that it reconstructs pictures of any event, past or present; and it catches thought and reproduces it orally. We know, too, that it transmits metal commands from Rez to the minds of anyone close to a chip from its edge.

“In addition, and what is more to the point at the moment, it has hypnotic powers—like those of a crystal globe, only vastly exaggerated. With its aid Rez is able to control our subconscious minds utterly, and, through our minds, our bodies. We will be under his domination as long as he has the jewel to help him. That being the case our problem is clear: We must smash the disk.”

“But we couldn’t do that even if we were given the chance.”

“Why not?” demanded the professor belligerently.

“Well, a diamond—the hardest of all stones-”

“It is also one of the most brittle," Sanderson pointed out. “And this disk is hardly more than an inch thick. A blow should crack it readily enough. Then, with its influence shattered, we could go behind the curtain and come to grips with Rez....”

Neal listened with renewed interest. Behind the curtain! That was



where the voice had come from—the voice that he refused to link with Sanderson ’s description of the monstrous, cylindrical head.

“Then next time we go to the disk

room, we’ll break the thing and-”

he commenced eagerly.

“You forget that we can’t move a limb against the command of Rez,” interrupted the professor irritably. “And he certainly won’t allow us to break his diamond if he is anywhere near. ’'

“But if he weren’t there at the moment!’’ Neal’s shoulders straightened at the thought. “If we could escape long enough.to break it in his absence-”

Sanderson shook his head despondently. “I’m afraid that’s impossible. Remember our thoughts are disclosed to Rez, if he wills it, the minute we think them. Right now he may be watching us in the disk, listening to all we say about escaping.’’

“But,” said Neal, “you once remarked that in your opinion Rez can’t be ail-seeing, all-knowing. He can’t turn his attention to our thoughts if he is already concentrating on some other part of Earth. ’ ’

“That’s true,” murmured Sanderson thoughtfully. “But how can we escape from these rooms long enough to pay Rez an informal call?”

T 1 he solid stone walls of their prison offered no solution to their problem, and the outer door, of heavy metal, was impregnable.

“It’s got to be done through the guard,” said Neal. “We could overpower the guard leader when he brings us food.”

“ There’d still be the rest of the guard, ” said the professor dubiously. “We can’t overpower them, too.”

“No, but we might force the guard leader to command them to go away. We’ve seen how blindly these puppets obey orders.”

“We’ve also seen how the leaders are punished for disobeying the or-

ders of Rez,” countered Sanderson. “We couldn’t make him do it.”

Silence followed this unanswerable objection for a time. Then Neal turned to him thoughtfully.

“You know Latin,” he said; “can you remember the way the guard leader worded his command to the men to file out ahead of us and line up on the ramp below the outer entrance?”

“I think so,” answered the professor. “Why do you ask?”

“It occurs to me that if I took the helmet with the blue diamond in it, and repeated that order to the men, they might obey it as though the man himself had given the command!”

Sanderson stared. “But you don’t look like the fellow in the least. It would never fool them, stupid as they are.”

“I don’t believe it’s necessary to fool them with appearances. I think they’ll obey any order given them by a person wearing the diamond of authority in his helmet. They’re machines, as we know, and anyone ought to be able to start and stop them just as machinery starts and stops at the touch of a control lever—no matter whose hand it is that touches the lever!”

The professor considered the suggestion.

“ Yes, ” he agreed slowly, ‘ 4 1 believe there’s a lot in that idea. Anyway it’s worth a try.”

“We’ll do it tonight,” declared Neal.

“Tonight? There is no night in this place!”

“I forgot,” said Neal, glancing up at the ceiling plates. “Well, the next time our friend comes with the food, then. ’ ’

Sanderson agreed, and he repeated the Latin phrase of command as nearly as he could remember the wording of it. Neal rehearsed it carefully, trying to deliver it in the even, machinelike tones adopted by the lieutenants of Rez. After that, as they had lost



track of the time and did not know just when their next meal would be brought in to them, they took their stations as planned.

Sanderson stood flat against the wall beside the door so that when it swung open it would hide him! Neal seated himself in plain sight at the metal table where their food was always placed for them; and they waited till the officially helmeted puppet should make his appearance.

Nearly half an hour must have passed before they heard the drawing of bolts that heralded the bringing of their meal. The professor tensed his body to spring. Neal assumed a relaxed and casual position on his bench.

The door was opened slowly and the lieutenant appeared with the platter of food. As he stepped into the room, before he had closed the door behind him, Neal caught a glimpse of the usual guard of a score or so of men in a double row across the entrance to take the place of bolts and locks for a few moments.

Woodenly insensitive to the supposition that the prisoners might be so mad as to entertain a thought of escape, the man walked stolidly toward the table at which Neal was seated. Behind him the giant professor crept up noiselessly, his feet moving furtively over the muffling carpet. Just as the guard leader turned to leave, Sanderson got close enough to reach him.

A big hand clamped down over the guard’s mouth. A muscular leg was tightened around his legs to throw him to the floor, and an arm circled his arms and held them helpless against his sides.

Instantly, as had been planned, Neal took off his tunic and ripped the tough material into lengths. With these strips he bound the man’s hands and feet; and with a further wad of it he stopped his lips. It was all over in one violent moment, but short as was the interval required to tie and

gag him, Neal had time to marvel at his actions. He did not struggle furiously to loose himself from his bonds. He didn’t stare up at them with fear and hatred in his eyes. There wasn’t an expression on his face. Even in such a crisis, he remained an automaton!

Neal set the helmet with the diamond on his own head, took the captive’s tunic, and exchanged his own gray metal sandals for the yellow metal ones on the other’s feet. Then he approached the portal. Once more he repeated the phrase of command to make sure he had it perfectly, after which ho opened the door and faced the score of automatons ranged outside.

An instant he paused and looked at them. Certainly they seemed mechanical enough for anyone to start and stop even as he had said. Soulless, mindless, twenty identical parts of one inhuman system, all that manipulated them was a set of orders like different wires jerked to produce different results in the actions of dolls.

Cilent and wooden, they stared at ^ him as he stood in the doorway; and if a change in leaders was noted, at least there was no recognition of the fact evidenced by any one of their number.

He repeated the sonorous words of command; and docilely the men turned, preceded them down the hall as before, filed out onto the ramp, and lined up on the slope below the door. So far the way was clear to the disk room.

On the roof of the lower building, they hesitated for a moment before entering the tower.

“If there’s another leader in the guardroom at the bottom of the steps-” Neal whispered.

“If there is, we shall probably be stopped,’’ the professor rumbled. “But we won’t look for trouble until it forces itself upon us.”

Coolly they traversed the open



stretch of roof, turned into the arched portal—and found that the way was still open to them. No lieutenant of Rez was to be seen in the large square chamber that occupied the foot of the tower. Only the puppet guards were stationed there as before; and, as before, there was no notice given them. Without hindrance they walked rapidly to the foot of the broad steps leading up to the disk room. As on the previous occasion, the score of guards accompanying them remained behind, leaving Neal and the professor to proceed alone to the den of Rez. The mere sight of the helmet that Neal had taken from their leader and put on his own head, had been their password throughout.

“If these men are so completely without self-volition, ’ ’ whispered Neal as they turned the first bend in the stairway and passed out of sight, “I can’t see that they’re very useful as guardsL Why have them stationed in the building at all?’’

“Perhaps they are put there with only one order given them—to stop any large band of their own kind that might seek to rush the tower,” said Sanderson. “That would ward off all chance of revolt, though that chance is almost nil, it would seem. However, in any event we are past them. We’ve got this far on our errand.”

“It’s been almost too easy! Do you suppose we’re walking into some kind of a trap? Is Rez waiting for us with some unexpected and unpleasant welcome?”

Sanderson shrugged. “We’ll have to go on and see for ourselves. ’ ’

Rapidly they climbed the remainder of the stairs and came to the curtained door of the disk room. Pressing close to this they listened intently for a few moments. No sound came to their ears from the other side; and they ventured to lift a corner of the drape and gaze into the chamber. They could see no sign of Rez, nor, more hopeful still, could they sense the presence of the Black King. The re-

pulsive feel of evil in the air was there as ever, but it was dim and faint as though it were but an echo of that disturbing personality left behind while its author was absent on other business.

Reassured, they stepped quickly into the room, to destroy the disk of Rez if they could, or to endure the unpleasant reception that might have been prepared for them if they were not alone as they appeared to be.

A s before when they had visited it, the apartment seemed empty and lifeless. The bright sunlight pouring down from the metal plates revealed no sign of Rez’s presence; and not a sound could be heard from the direction of the big diamond. The disk itself was blank in the glare of illumination.

“I think we’re alone,” said Neal, pitching his voice almost to a whisper, forgetting the fact that no matter how inaudible he talked his words would have been audible to Rez had he been there—that even thought was known to that alert being if he so willed it.

The professor nodded impatiently and walked straight toward the disk. There was in his mind only space for the one thought: instant accomplishment of the object of their escape.

His eyes searched the room for some hard tool to smash against the thin diamond plate. The javelins that hung in patterns on the draped walls offered themselves, but he rejected the idea of using these, and decided that one of the heavy metal benches would be more effective.

Catching up a bench, he walked toward the diamond. But just as he had swung it back and was about to crash it into the center of the brittle stone, Neal caught his arm.

“Wait a minute,” he suggested. ‘ ‘ Hirst perhaps we ought to see if we can make it work for us.”

“First,” said Sanderson, staling incredulously at his companion and then making an irritable move to free



his arm, “first we'll break the thing, and then we can do our talking! ’ ’

“But we might be able to learn.from it what we want to know—the way of escape from this place. Then, after we have-”

“Damn the escape!” snapped the professor. “All I want is the destruction of Rez, and that I can never hope to accomplish unless I break the disk before he returns. ’ ’

“It would only take a minute-”

“That might be just a minute too long!”

“If we hear Rez coming you can carry out your purpose and smash the bench against it before he gets here.”

It was an unconvincing argument to the professor. Hear Rez coming! And would not Rez be warned of their presence in his telepathic way long before he entered the room? And having thus been warnedHowever, he set the bench down reluctantly in its place before the disk and tried to conceal an expression of disappointment at his friend’s sudden cautionary desire to preserve his life first and think of the purpose of their mission last.

“What have you in mind?” he asked, grasping for patience in the face of Neal’s inexplicable wish for delay.

“Just this—let’s see if we can’t call a picture to the disk as Rez did, showing us a way out of the kingdom. There must be a secret exit somewhere. When we have learned about it, we can break the stone as we planned.”

“Personally,” said Sanderson, an edge to his tone, “I would rather smash it at. once and let the question of escape take care of itself! But I suppose I haven’t the right to dispose of your life so autocratically. All right, we’ll try it.”

He stood close to the disk, facing it and studying it speculatively.

“I haven’t an idea how this may be controlled. Probably by sheer force of thought.”

Increasingly conscious of the flying seconds, he proceeded on that theory and turned his whole mind to the task of willing a picture to take form on the polished surface that would show them what they wished to know. With all his power he concentrated on the round blue stone.

It remained sullenly blank.

“Perhaps there is some sort of mechanism in the rear—behind the curtain,” suggested Neal. “I’ll go and see.” Eagerly he went forward. The voice had come from behind that curtain....

“Neal! We’re wasting invaluable time!”

“Just a minute longer.” He stepped to the drapes in back of the disk.

For a second or two he paused there, on the threshold of the inner sanctuary of Rez.

In here were probably the answers to many of the secrets of that ruler. What strange things might not lie behind this curtain! Would Rez himself be revealed to him, sitting in silent wrath on some exotic throne and preparing to deal terribly with the intruder from the upper world? Was death waiting in the form of some mechanical trap that would be released by the pressure of the first foot to step into the forbidden room?

His hesitation lasted only an instant. Resolutely he drew aside the curtain and stepped behind the disk....

“Good God!” came his voice, muffled by the drapes. “Sanderson!”

Startled by his tone, Sanderson ran to join him.

A s the professor left the larger room in front of the disk, there was a slight stir of movement in one of the far comers. From there, where the massive stone sarcophagus squatted against the wall, could be heard a faint grating sound—and the heavy lid of the ancient coffin was raised slightly as though some living thing



were under it and about to step forth into the room. An almost tangible aura of repulsive magnetism, a kind of odor of evil, escaped from the sarcophagus as the great lid slowly opened.

With an exclamation the professor stared at the spectacle that had so moved his friend. Then, instinctively, he inclined his head and kept a hushed silence.

Before them, laid out on a narrow, black-draped slab, was the body of a girl. She was dressed in the all-enveloping garment that Sanderson had seen in the cave of the women; but the regular cowl had not been drawn over her head, and her face, fully revealed, was different from the faces of any of those. It was beautiful and firmly molded, with a promise that, in life, its owner had been no automaton to respond to every whisper of autocratic authority. This was no standardized subject of the kingdom of Rez!

“Is it possible that—this is Rez?” murmured Neal at last. Sanderson shook his head, and they continued to stare, wondering, at the rigid figure.

By some marvelous method of preservation it had been made to appear as though she were only sleeping there. The smooth ivory of the cheeks was natural-seeming and life-like. The closed eyes were only slightly sunken, and looked as though at any moment the long-lashed lids might tremble and open. There was a slight cleft in her chin, hardly more than a dimple, and the velvet recession in the smooth white skin was singularly appealing. Her hair was vividly dark in the light of the plates. The Queen of the Nile herself could not have looked more softly beautiful.

Her right hand was extended toward the back of the disk, resting on a low metal stand and brushing against the curtain that hung only an inch or so from the great jewel. On the middle finger of that hand was a ring, and in the ring was set a blue

diamond that had been chipped from the edge of the disk. Thus the diamond on her finger was almost touching the back of the parent gem; that the arrangement was deliberate and to serve some purpose was shown by the careful placing of the black-draped metal stand, on which her fingers showed white as ivory in a black velvet jewel box.

This, then, was the mechanism used in conjunction with the sullen blue crystal! This was the owner of the voice—of the liquid contralto that was beautiful in spite of its lifelessness, fascinating though flattened to monotone!

“She’s lovely!” breathed Neal, and at the words, the professor turned quickly to look at him.

There was in his eyes an emotion of which he himself was not quite aware. His lips were parted as he gazed at the pallid features. On his face was an expression that told plainly enough what was in his heart. Ever since he had first heard the voice he had been fighting within himself, his instinct telling him that the voice was a thing of sweetness, reason insisting that it could not be anything but repulsive in spite of its charm. Now he knew his instinct had been right, and the joy the knowledge gave him was printed on his face.

“Lovely!” he said again. His hands reached out impulsively to touch her, but Sanderson recalled him to the urgency of their task.

“The disk,” he said impatiently. “We can’t delay any longer-”

But his reminder came too late.

Even as he spoke, there was a subtle change in the atmosphere around them. The air was charged with an evil magnetism that made their flesh creep. As though someone had shouted a warning to them, they knew they were no longer alone in the little room behind the disk. Somebody — some Thing—had drawn the curtains, entered noiselessly, and was standing behind them!



Whirling around from the body of the girl, they saw a monstrous, human-seeming figure. Still and menacing it stood, just inside the entrance. For an instant they hesitated, appalled. Then they sprang at it together, but in that moment they felt themselves seized with the blinding spell that made them powerless to lift a hand. They could only stand, paralyzed, and stare.

12. Rea

O utlined all too clearly against the rough white of the drapes, the human Devil they sought—the powerful author of most of the world’s great catastrophes — watched their struggles to free themselves of the invisible chains that held them motionless.

Here at last was the Rez of the photographs, the gigantic figure at whose tiny apparition Eden had shuddered when he first pictured it in the diamond years before.

He was larger even than Sanderson, and even more enormously muscled. But there the slight resemblance ended. He had not the vital, alive appearance of the professor. Rather, he seemed like a dead thing brought to life, a creature of stone or of some unfleshlike substance that was only shaped to look human. And on his skin there was no spiky black hair. It was blanched and dry-looking, so smooth that it glistened faintly with a scaly, serpentine sheen as though, if there ever had been hair on its surface, it had long ago lost its vitality and had disappeared. In that one feature, his skin, was proof of the claim of his enormous age—it resembled unbelievably old parchment, perfectly preserved but breathing of centuries past.

The eye, however, was most held by the head of Rez—or rather, by the head’s covering.

The pictures taken in Eden’s distant laboratory had faithfully showed

the smooth cylinder, tapering to a rounded point like a projectile, that was set between the creature’s shoulders. They had not been clear enough, though, to indicate that the cylinder was not a head but an exaggerated helmet.

It was a seamless easing of emooth, dull metal, a pointed shell about a foot through and two feet high. At the shoulders it was curved to fit the arc of the collar bone in an immovable arrangement that made it necessary for Rez to turn his whole body if an object were to be seen at either side. In the front of the shell were two small round panes of glass, ground into heavy lenses. Behind these peered ice-gray eyes, magnified to grotesque proportions by the lenses that covered them.

Just under the metal hood, at the base of the heavy throat, there was a large hole sunk deeply into the flesh and covered by fine mesh screen.

Utterly helpless, Neal and the professor waited for the blasting wrath of the monster they had uncovered. And as they stood speechlessly there, a voice came to them. They could not tell whether it had its source in the cylindrical metal hood or in Ike diamond disk just beyond the curtain. Toneless it was, and unplaccable, seeming to come from the air about them.

“Now you have seen,” the words were somehow conveyed to them, “is your dangerous curiosity satisfied?”

They said nothing. There was no answer they eould make. They had come to accomplish the destruction of the disk, had delayed too long, and now stood completely in Rez’s power. They could only await his pleasure.

Their nightmare captor stood aside and gestured for them to leave the chamber behind the disk and go into the other room. They found their legs released momentarily from the binding spell, and obeyed the unspoken command. So close to the repulsive figure did they pass that they



could have touched it—had they only been able to move their arms!

In the center of the big room they were halted. Rez followed slowly and sat down on the bench the professor had seized a few moments before in his determination to break the disk. He faced them, his cold eyes hideously distorted by the heavy lenses.

“You are prying guests,” came the voiceless words—words that seemed to form within their own minds without having been uttered by human lips. “But guests you still remain and I must, of course, be courteous. Why did you come here? ”

Neither answered. Sanderson was numb with anger at himself for not seizing the opportunity he thought had been given him of breaking the diamond, disk. Neal was straining to free himself and close with the creature that had caused the death of the lovely being behind the curtain.

“You came to smash the disk, didn’t you?” the unspoken words went on. “You thought to rob me of the source of my power. I knew you were coming, but I did not bother to stop you. It was not necessary—not so long as you”—the metal hood nodded toward Neal—“wore the blue diamond ring on your finger. Wearing that, you were under the dominance of the disk and could not allow it to be destroyed. ’ ’

‘ £ The ring! Of course! ’ ’ exclaimed the professor, bitterly. ‘ ‘ That was why you wanted to delay me in breaking the disk. I thought at the time it was a ' Idenly developed timidity—your arguments about first finding a way of escape. But it was the infernal stone on your finger! ’ ’

“Exactly,” came agreement from the metal hood of Rez. “Consciously he was as anxious to shatter the diamond as you. But subconsciously he was incapable of allowing it— though it would not have been allowed in any event as I was nearer than you may have thought. Hence his argu-

ments that caused you to vary from your plan. I am informed that your efforts to use the stone were useless, too, that you were unable to learn from it what you wished to know.”

The enormous eyes were turned toward Sanderson.

“It is surprizing that a scientist of your ability should not be able to ascertain the secret of my poor powers. But perhaps your failure lay mainly in the fact that you tried to call a picture to the disk while the light was shining on it. The diamond must be in darkness. But even if you had known of that necessity, it might have baffled you to proceed—it is not for everyone to turn on and off the illumination from my rinay plates. It is rather more complicated than turning an electric switch. However, I will show you the secret even of this, and also reveal to you the way of escape you wanted to discover.”

"\X7ithout moving a muscle, Rez * ’ sat before them. And suddenly, of its own accord it seemed, the light faded from the room like water drained from a bottomless container. The disk took on its resemblance to a circle of darkly blue night sky; and this in turn brightened, then shaded into a picture.

On the face of the diamond showed the great central cave in which was the building that now housed them. The picture moved, as might a picture taken with a cinema camera from the front of a moving vehicle. Away from the central tower building it sped, toward one of the wide tunnels that branched away like the spokes of a wheel. Above this tunnel was one of the great, painted monsters that sprawled over the misty i*ed walls of the cavern in a nightmare mural decoration, and its tail pointed down toward the peaked arch of the passage. So much Sanderson noted; but whether the symbol had been placed there by accident, or whether it was design that had laid that mural route


decoration there, he could not determine.

Down this tunnel their eyes were whirled, almost as though they were performing the journey in person, till at the second turn left the main tunnel was deserted, and their path led down a smaller passage. Here, after a very short way, it seemed to end in a blind wall, but, protruding from the rock near this seeming end of the tunnel, was a lever of gray metal. As they watched, this was depressed by some unseen power and the wall that had barred further progress was drawn up into the roof of the arch. On they went in their visual journey; and now the passage was an unsmoothed, natural grotto, widening into ragged caves and dwindling again into dimensions such that a man could hardly squeeze his body through.

Once more the way seemed hopelessly barred as the passage terminated in a small cavern, sheer-walled, and apparently with no other exit than the opening that led into it. In this cave were a dozen or more of the puppets of Rcz stiffly on guard.

Opposite the entrance a slotted block of stone could be seen, and in this were two levers. One was of gray metal, as had been the lever that had raised the preceding barrier. The other was of yellow metal.

“The yellow lever,” came the message of Rez, “starts in motion the process of measured vibration I described as having caused the rock slide that showed you the underground lake. If it is touched”—there was a significant pause—“if it is touched— I will only say that any army that might have been sent against me, and that might have won entrance into my underground kindgom, would cease to exist. I would have complete vengeance in my downfall.”

The picture flowed on in its taunting illustration of the way of escape they would never now be able to utilize. The gray metal lever was pulled down, and a section of the rock wall

of the cave swung up into the roof to disclose a narrow crevice at the end of which could be seen the light of sky and a tracery of leaves as though the small opening there were concealed by a bush or low tree.

“The crevice seems small,” came the mocking message of Rez, “but it is of soft earth, easily dug away until room could be made to crawl out to safety. However”—the chill eyes glared at them from behind the distorting lenses—“you will never traverse that path in person. As I have said, you are not going to die, precisely—but your condition will be such that, in a very short time now, you won’t be thinking of escape, or of anything else.”

The picture faded from the disk, and the light flared out again to reveal the huge figure of Rez as immobile as before. Whatever the means he used of controlling his illuminatingplates and his picture-transmitting diamond, they were not physical.

“And now,” came the contemptuous words, “you will of course be able to use the disk and control the rinay plates at will. You have seen just how they are manipulated....”

They could only stare, helplessly, at the metal cylinder that enveloped all of their captor’s head but his glaring eyes.

“VT'ou are wondering at the protec-

* tive helmet I wear?” resumed Rez. “Can you not,” he looked at Sanderson, ‘ ‘ understand exactly what it is, and why it is rendered necessary? The reason is surely apparent. ’ ’

Sanderson shook his head, still so overwhelmed with a conviction of defeat that he only half comprehended the words.

“But think,” urged Rez smoothly. ‘ ‘ I have told you I was born in Egypt thousands of years ago. What would be the natural effect of all the intervening centuries on a brain—and its encasing skull?”

Still the professor kept silent.



“My respect for your ability as a reasoning scientist is in danger of growing less, ’ ’ mocked the indefinable voice. “But I will tell you—inasmuch as the account has some slight connection with the fate reserved for yourself.” The great body rose, and Rez began to walk slowly up and down the room in front of them, a form of restless activity they were soon to learn was habitual with him.

“It is the theory of your physiologists,” he began, his words coming to them with equal clarity whether he faced them or not, was at a distance from them or right beside them, “that increasing brain capacity is accommodated by ever-deepening and everincreasing folds in the surface of the brain itself. In this way, they say, a larger and larger surface area may be confined in a given space, just as a square foot of cloth may be crumpled into a small sphere. This is nature’s method of allowing the reasoning cerebral matter to expand at need in spite of the rigidly limited bone casing of the skull.

“It is the further theory of your physiologists that such increase of convolution in the surface of the brain is endless—that the skull would never be overcrowded no matter what age and intellectual capacity the mind might attain. In support of their theory they point to instances of long life on earth where in spite of many decades of growth the skull continues to hold its brain with ease.

“But, in citing this as proof of their statements, they have overlooked two things: The fact that the average man declines again in brain power as he approaches great age; and the possibility that a man might live far beyond the limit of their imaginings.

“In existing through the ages—for more centuries than most men number years—I have broken a law of nature and upset your limited theories of skull capacity. And there was a time about eight hundred years ago when

I thought I must pay the penalty with death or loss of reason.

“During all the centuries I have lived, it has been my main purpose in life to assimilate all the knowledge of the world’s great minds. Where there was a chemical experiment, an engineering problem, a psychological test of far-reaching result, there I have trained my disk and sat invisible in attendance. All this knowledge I stored in my brain, until there was in my head such a library of advanced information as no building has ever contained in printed pages and numbered volumes. And here was reached the limit of mental growth in relation to skull construction, the point where my brain began to be too large for my skull.

“Gradually there commenced a series of awful, tearing aches as the expanding cerebral matter crowded the confines of its inelastic casing. My eyes were pushed almost out of their sockets by the pressure within; and there were long periods of temporary blindness during which I could only lie relaxed in this room, hardly daring to think for fear the infinitesimal resultant pressure would kill me instantly. The bones of my skull separated until there was almost a finger’s width between them. My skin had lost its resiliency over the great period of my age, and was stretched to the utmost to cover the widening cracks. Once that skin should split and leave the brain entirely exposed—

“It was just at this point that 1 found help through the service of the disk. An obscure Arab surgeon, a skull specialist a thousand years ahead of his time, performed a marvelous operation on the spear-fractured skull of his sheik. I watched it in the diamond and knew the solution of my problem was found.

“To the man went one of the hundreds of emissaries that do my bidding in the outer world. He


presented the surgeon with a blue diamond, and from that moment, of course, the man was mine. Through a hidden entrance, which I have since caused to be blocked off, he came to me under the domination of the jewel.

“At first he refused to consider attempting the operation I described....” There was a pause. “But after I had demonstrated to him the penalty for disobedience in my kingdom, using one of the guards for an example, he consented quickly enough. A year of training under my tutelage—a year in which every day might be my last—and he was ready to perform the service I required.

“A metal casing, the one you see now on my shoulders, was prepared for me. The inside was burnished to velvet smoothness, and eyeholes were cut into it which were protected with lenses of glass set into the metal in airtight grooves. The bottom of the shell was curved to fit my shoulders, and there Avas an expanding rim made for it that was capable of adjustment while still remaining airtight. All was ready for the operation, including the surgeon—in Avhosc presence I gave orders to my men as to what should happen to him if he failed.

“We Avent to the laboratory—which presently you also shall see in somewhat similar circumstances—and I put myself under his hands, blind and almost insane with pain. He performed the operation as I had taught him:

“The top of my skull was removed like a cover lifted from a pot, from just over the eye-sockets in front to a little above the base of the neck in the rear. Vitality was sustained during this delicate surgery by rays from the rinay plates—another fact you are shortly to learn about at first hand.

“In place of a skull the metal casing was set over the exposed brain, which was now released of its fatal constriction. The expanding band was tightened around my neck, the metal being sunk in until a roll of

flesh covered its rim completely. The operation was complete, and I was equipped Avith a skull that would not condemn me to death no matter how long I might live. ’ ’

Back and forth he walked before them, the artificial skull turning aAvkAvardly as he moved.

But how in the world can he breathe! marveled Neal to himself.

“Air is admitted to my lungs through this hole in my throat, ” came the direct answer, as though he had spoken his thought aloud. A huge finger pointed to the circle of fine mesh screening set deep into the heavy throat. And now that he had called attention to it, they could faintly hear a hissing sound, inhalations and exhalations timed to the movement of his peat chest.

“What with the rapid expansion following the releasing operation, and the continued groAvth of eight more centuries of mental labor, I do not myself know how much of this metal skull is at present filled by my brain. But it is enough”—the words swelled in volume—“it is enough to make me emperor of all the human race!

“Iam master of minds, ruler of the world of thought and hence of the world of men. No intellect can withstand me. No will can resist the power of my OAvn. I am the supreme mental force! And you—childish creatures of a childish earth—thought to come here and destroy me! You, more helpless in my grip than animals —for animals haven’t minds to dominate—invade my kingdom and seek to kill me!”

The grotesque metal skull was turned toward Sanderson again. “Your ridiculous lifelong training is useless here, as I think you can now perceive for yourself. Dismiss your thought of struggling against me, and resign yourself to the fate that awaits you.”

The cold eyes glared through their lenses at Neal. “And you would do 'Veil to rid yourself of your infatTHE BLACK MONARCH


uation for the inanimate thing that lies behind the disk. It is not well to be infatuated with death—it comes to some quickly enough!”

He paused and stood enormojzs before them.

“You will be escorted back to your chambers. And you will not again have the opportunity of leaving them unless I give the command.”

XTeal took the ring from his finger and stared at the indigo diamond that glowed in the heavy setting.

“And this,” he said bitterly, “was the reason for our delay in smashing the disk! Even while I was arguing with you and causing us to waste valuable seconds, I could hardly understand myself. And all the time Rez was merely amusing himself by tantalizing us! What a poor thing you must have thought I was—to put the chance of escape against the chance of breaking the infernal power of Rez! ’ ’

“I’ll confess I was surprized at your sudden caution,” said the professor slowly. “ I should have known it was the ring speaking, and not you. I should have gone ahead and acted regardless of your arguments. But the chance has passed now.”

“I’d get rid of this tiling at once, only I don’t know how to dispose of it. Shut in here-”

“It doesn’t matter,” replied Sanderson absently. ‘ ‘ Whether you wear it or not, your thoughts will be repeated at will inside that incredible metal skull. ’ ’ He shook his head thoughtfully. “Who would believe that a human being could live through such an operation?”

“That isn’t as astounding to me,” said Neal, “as his ability to live now that it is performed! He’s told us how he breathes, but—how does he eat? Has he managed to eliminate the necessity of taking food into his system like other mortals?”

“No doubt he feeds himself by injection. It could be done easily

enough, some concentrated nutritive substance shot directly into the blood with a hypodermic arrangement. Such a problem would offer few difficulties to one who must be the greatest chemist that has ever lived.”

“But he spoke to us,” Neal continued bewilderedly. “How could he do that with his lips in a hermetically sealed shell, and air admitted into his windpipe below the vocal cords?”

“He didn’t actually speak, if you’ll remember,” Sanderson pointed out. “It was as I described the greeting I got when I first came into these rooms —a voice seemed to speak, and yet it was impossible to define that voice or describe it in any way. The answer is, of course, that it wasn’t a voice at all. It was an advanced form of telepathy. The vibrations of thought clothed in coherent speech were transmitted from his brain to ours, probably magnified into audibility somehow by the diamond, as an infinitesimal noise may be made audible by the magnifying power of an amplifier. The words reacted on our inner, mental ears and the effect was that of actual hearing —though the physical outer ear wasn’t functioning for a moment. It’s easy to see that, with his marvelous powers, Rez isn’t discommoded by his cumbersome metal head!”

“No,” agreed Neal with a frown, “in fact it’s probably the other way around — the chances arc that the metal shell is as protective as a helmet.”

However, the professor shook his head at this.

“I don’t think so. Metal is a far less effective insulator from shocks and sudden jolts than bone. If a blow were struck against the casing it might instantly numb the bi’ain just underneath it. But I don’t see how we’ll ever have a chance to test that theory now. In the disk l’oom the instant cither of us conceives the thought of attacking him, that instant he can read it and command our bodies to immobility by the power of



his will magnified by the hypnotic properties of the disk. It is as he boasted. Rez is master of minds. Master of minds....”

For a moment he apparently let his thoughts wander along some pathway thrown open by the words.

“ It ’s really nothing but hypnotism. There should be some way of escaping it. Animals can’t be hypnotized, for instance. Not in that way. Mindless things. Doubtless the workmen here, the guards, are too low in the scale to be so controlled. In making his subjects too beast-like to revolt, he may have made them too mindless to be controlled as he controls his lieutenants or us. If we could coerce one of the men to break the disk— train him as one trains a dog.... No, that’s impassible. But if either of us could com pel' the other to absolute mindlessness for a few moments the mental dominance of Rez might be broken. An advanced mesmerist might. Neither of us is capable of doing it....”

His voice trailed off into silence. In the unvarying glare of the rinay plates they sat, fretting with the realization that they could do nothing but wait helplessly for their disposal at the hands of the hooded devil in the disk room.

T he constant glare of illumination was distracting in its bright monotony. Never for an instant did the eye have an opportunity to rest from the piercing yellow beams. Even behind closed lids the glare persisted, throbbing against the optic nerves as the continued beat of a drum might rasp at the delicate nerves of the ear. Only when there is no night is there a chance to realize fully what a tremendous boon night brings us with its change in shading and its restful darkness. Mental concentration, even physical repose seemed impossible in the irritating persistence of the warm yellow rays.

Neal moved restlessly. “What do

you suppose is to be done with us? Rez keeps referring to some vague fate in store for us, although he insists we are not to die.”,

Sanderson spread his big hands in an impotent gesture.

“We probably won’t know until he chooses to tell us. It seems to divert, him to keep our suspense up in this cheap way. ’ ’

For a time there was silence as they became engrossed in their thoughts; Sanderson in fruitless attempts to plan a way of smashing the dish, and Neal in haunting memory of the golden voice that had come to them from the diamond and the beautiful,, tragic figure that lay on the black-shrouded slab.

He tried to imagine what she had been like in life. That she might be one of the women of the black underground kingdom he refused to believe for a moment. She was far too different from the automatic creatures that lived their dull lives in Rez. She had been brought from the outside world, surely, at some time or other— perhaps several centuries ago. And Rez, the unspeakable despot who called himself “benevolent,” had cut her down at the start of her life and had placed her there for his own mysterious reasons....

“Why do you suppose he did it?” he suddenly asked aloud.

“Did what?” demanded the professor, not being endowed with a Rez-like ability to read minds.

“Put the dead girl beside the diamond disk?” explained Neal.

“Well, we know that she serves the double purpose of transmitting his own thoughts verbally if he desires, and of catching and speaking aloud distant thought-messages from the disk. And it might be that only a woman’s body, as the most delicate of human organisms, can serve the fragile mechanical purpose of catching and transforming human thought into speech. It’s only a guess. ’ ’

“So he killed that harmless, beauTHE BLACK MONARCH


tii'ul thing to make a new part for his machinery! ’ ’

Sanderson smiled dryly. “As I say, it’s only a guess. And I can imagine that a being as old in iniquity as Rez would have more use for new mechanical parts than for harmless, beautiful things. But in any event it’s a crime that looms small indeed in comparison with the vastly greater evils that may be laid to his account. In the millions of lives he has cost, the life of one individual is not very important. ’ ’

But Neal, in his heart, disagreed. Only the scientific mind is able to weigh tragedy impartially. To most of humanity the death of some personally important one totally eclipses a catastrophe on the other side of the world in which thousands die. The collapse of our own dreams is more poignantly felt than the earthquake in another land.

In the very beginning he had joined the professor not so much because he was stirred by the tremendous abstract evil of the Thing they now knew as Rez, but because he hoped he might take some sort of revenge for the death of his father. Now he burned with a greater desire to smash that nightmare cylindrical head, not because of the unbelievable degradation ho had seen in the underground kingdom, not because a whole race of people had been made into soulless machines, but because one girl—whose beautiful still face and low sweet voice he could not drive from his mind — had been caught among the countless other victims of this being who ruled the world, this unsuspected monarch of all the nations.

‘ ’ Is there nothing at all we can do?” he exclaimed savagely.

“Nothing,” said Sanderson moodily, “unless we can smash the disk. And I don’t see how we can do that when Rez, through its power, utterly dominates our minds. ’ ’

Neal clenched his hands as he saw

again the still, rigid form behind the curtain, and heard again the taunting words of Rez—not to become infatuated with death.

A bove them in the tower, in the curtained chamber behind the disk, the monstrous form of Rez moved ponderously about a task that would have been more surprizing to Neal, could he have seen it, than any other single happening of the realm.

A drape was pushed aside by the big, hairless hand to reveal a row of stone shelves on which were various containers and calibrating-vessels. There were many objects in addition, coils of thin metal tubing, small concave plates of the rinay metal for generating heat, fabric and alloy articles whose purpose could not be guessed by any other than the evil brain that had designed them. Out of all the objects, however, Rez selected only three containers filled with various liquids, and a calibrated measuring-glass.

At the side of one of the containers he fixed a concave rinay plate, and focused it on a ruled sliding stand. When he had it set to his satisfaction, he paused. Instantly, as though an electric switch had been thrown, the plate glowed sun-yellow and emitted a heat that set the liquid to bubbling in the container within a few seconds.

Raising another container, one with a greenish fluid in it, he tilted it into the calibrated glass until the bottom was barely covered. The third container was drained of an equal content—which resembled blood but was a lighter crimson. The mixture glowed violet, seethed for a moment till it had entirely blended, and subsided into a deep purple. To this was added a small portion of the heated fluid, the result of the mixture of the three ingredients being about a gill of warm amethyst liquid.

Prom another of the shelves he took a large hypodermic syringe, into which he fixed a needle after testing



it to assure himself of its proper sharpness. This was held in front of the rinay plate an instant for sterilization; then it was thrust into the calibrated glass and filled with the liquid there.

He turned, hypodermic syringe held expertly in his great fingers, and approached the white figure that lay on the low couch with its pallid right hand extended toward the disk. For a moment the cold, distorted eyes stared through the lenses at the blanched face and pale coral of the lips. Then Rez touched the white garment that draped the body, and laid bare the shoulder. In the smooth satin of the skin could be seen a faint blue patch, dotted in places with marks of the needle. In the center of this patch the big hand stabbed the hypodermic with delicate precision. The plunger was depressed, and the warm amethyst liquid was sent into the rigid body.

For a moment there was no reaction; and then there seemed to occur a miracle of death turning to life.

A barely perceptible stain of color came into the cheeks. The closed eyelids quivered slightly, and opened so that a glimpse could be caught of the whites of the eyes underneath. A

faint tremor ran through the whole body; and when Rez held a polished sheet of metal before the trembling lips, a hint of moisture showed on the bright surface to indicate respiration.

The cylindrical head nodded once, as though to show satisfaction; and slowly the signs of life in the white shrouded figure faded into complete immobility again. The features were as pallid, the body as rigid and seemingly set in death as before.

For a few moments longer the cold eyes glared at her through the thick glass lenses. Then Rez turned once more to the still warm liquid in the measuring-glass, refilled the hypodermic, and sent the concentrated food essence into his own body.

This done, he went out to the larger chamber in front of the disk. The lights were extinguished and a picture formed on the big diamond—a picture of the prison rooms below, where Sanderson and Neal were moving aimlessly about. As each talked, their words came from the disk—reproduced in the lifeless, flowing contralto as the thought waves were caught by the huge jewel, transmitted through the diamond on the girl’s finger, and reformed into audible sounds by the soft white throat.

The story rises in interest as next month's chapters reveal the hideous fate Rez has in store for Neal and the profes sot

■Sim m/uns

BY- c/ € RGOTf €• L LI S •

9uindai', oI FIRST saw the house when I was returning from a duckhunting trip along the edges of the marsh that adjoins Finger Lake. The birds had been both scarce and wary, and early in the afternoon I gathered my decoys, whistled my dog to the car and started for home.

When motoring alone I have always preferred the solitude of the narrow dirt roads to the busy rush of the paved highways and frequently turn into any unfamiliar lane that seems to lead in the general direction in which I wish to go. On this particular occasion I had chosen a picturesque, wooded road, but aftgr a mile or two of bumping over stony projections and ruts, I decided that its scenic values were not sufficient to offset the damage I was doing to my car and tires. I had about determined that I would turn back and seek the main road again when I w. T.—3

rounded a bend and came in sight of an abandoned farmhouse.

Almost every rural community has one or more of these neglected ruins, and most of them at some time or another acquire the reputation of being haunted. There need be no dark deeds connected with the history of the place; no strange sounds, heard by the belated passer-by; no lights, that flicker on and off behind closed shutters. The bare fact that people do not live in a house leads to speculation, to surmise and to rumor. It becomes known, usually quite unjustly, as The Haunted House.

I had seen dozens of “haunted” houses in my meanderings about the countryside, and had smiled at the weird tales that were told about them, knowing that in almost every instance the absence of a tenant was due to untillable soil and poor crops.

The house before which I now 62#



found myself was typical; an old frame structure, that had once been white, standing well back from the road in the midst of a wood-choked garden and backed by a rock-strewn, sloping field that would have discouraged any thrifty farmer. Faded green shutters covered the windows, or hung askew on rusty hinges, exposing the shattered glass behind them. The chimney had long since fallen and lay, a straggling pile of bricks, upon the moss-covered roof. Weather-worn outbuildings and a rusted hay-rake, half buried in the weeds, completed the scene of desolation.

Nosing the car throng an opening in the fence, where a gate might once have been, I was about to back and turn when my dog, a mongrel setter of unusual courage and intelligence, rose in the back seat and whined. He stood bolt-upright, looking intently toward the house, his tail down and a ridge of hair bristling upward along his spine.

“What do you see, Tng?” I said.

I had often heard the assertion that dogs are able to see things— ghosts, specters 'and what-not—that are invisible to the eyes of humans, but I didu’t believe it. Having good eyes myself, I have always felt that I could see whatever there was to be seen. I was right in this' instaneo at least, for as I tinned toward the house I became aware of wliat I at first took to be a do& standing in the shadows beside the building. As I looked the creature moved a little and I sew that it was not a dog but a timber-wolf, a great, gaunt animal with baleful yellow eyes and open red mouth. It was twice as large as Tug and I didn't blame the dog for whining. I have hunted wolves in Canada aud have seen some pretty big fellows but nothing to compare with the beast that glowered at me from around the comer of the house. However, it was not the size of the

animal that surprized me so much as the fact that it was there at all.

There haven’t been any wolves in our part of the country within the memory of the oldest settler; yet here I sat looking at one that was big enough to puli down a yearling steer. Wherever it came from, it was clearly up to me to destroy it, if possible, and I reaehod into the back of the ear lor the rifle which I always carry with me in addition to my bird-gun. Tug whined again and I whispered to him to be silent as I assured myself that the gun was ready to fire and raised it to my shoulder.

The distanee was not over forty yards and I am rated a good shot, but my target was not the sort of beast that one cares to only wound; so I aimed long and carefully between the sinister yellow eyes, fully expecting to end the business with a single shot. To my amazement, the wolf did not so much as move its head at the crack of the riflo.

Convinced that there had been a defective cartridge in the barrel, I fired again and this time I saw the path of the bullet as it tore through a clump of weeds, behind the head of the animal, but agaiu it stood motionless. Then, as I threw a third load into the breech, it turned and leisurely trotted out of sight around the corner of the house.

I was out of the car in an instant, too angry at my bad shooting to take account of the probable danger of meeting the beast at close quarters. Tug followed me, scared but game, and we turned the corner of the house within a few seconds of the disappearance ®f the wolf. There was nothing, living, hi sight, and except for the house itself, no possible place of concealment. The barren field lay directly t« the rear and there was no sign of life upen any part of it. On I went around the house, in the belief that the beast was ahead of me.



Tug whimpered at my heels, refusing to take the lead, and thus we made a complete circuit and reached the back door again.

Then I made a discovery. The ground was hard, behind the house, too hard even to allow weeds to thrive, and stooping to examine it, I found the faint but unmistakable tracks of the wolf. They led straight to the rotting wooden steps at the rear door and went no farther. Apparently the strange animal I followed had made its lair within the house and had intelligence enough to nose open a door, that swung to of its own weight.

With my rifle balanced on my hip, ready for a quick shot, I went up the steps and shoved a knee against the door, gently at first and then more firmly. It was no use—the door was bolted on the inside. Tug threw back his head and howled dismally, and for the first time I was scared.

Up to that moment I had been hunting a wolf—a wolf that was much larger than it should have been and in a part of the country where no wolves were supposed to be, but none the less a wolf, that looked like other wolves and left a track in the dirt when it moved. Even the fact that it had opened a closed door had not greatly surprized me—but when 1 found that door to be locked, the situation became a bit uncanny, even for the confirmed skeptic of things supernatural.

I made no further effort to open the door but went down the steps and again examined the wolf-track, hoping to convince myself that the track did not lead to the door; but the evidence was too plain to he mistaken. The marks of the big pads went directly to the foot of the steps and went no farther. Satisfied that I was dealing with something more sinister than a beast of the woods, I returned to the car, more hurriedly than I care to confess. I tried to argue with myself that, the door be-

ing locked, there was nothing further for me to do, but the argument was not convincing. I knew that both the door and the lock were in the last stages of decay and that, with very little effort, I could have foreed an entrance. It was not the locked door, but the thing that lay beyond it, that had caused my precipitate reti'eat.

T)efobe I reached the main road, ^ pai't of my courage had returned and I was determined not to quit the neighborhood until I had made some sort of an investigation of the old house. I turned the ear toward the village of Merton, where my friend Johnny Buell combines a real-estate and farmland business with a small law practise. Johnny knows every, one in that section of the country and would be likely to have information concerning the place I had just visited.

I found him in his office, reading a letter that seemed to puzzle and annoy him, for he looked up with a scowl when I entered. As soon as he recognized me, however, he pushed the letter aside and greeted me warmly. Johnny is a good deal of a hunter himself, and after a short discussion of my poor luck at Finger Lake, I said casually:

“How would you like to try for a wolf?”

He looked at me with a rather startled expression and then glanced down at the letter which he had been reading when I came in. “How did you happen to say that?” he asked. “Have you seen a wolf?”

“A big one,” I answered, and then told him about my experience at the farm and asked him if he knew the place. He nodded and listtened to my story without interruption, except for a grunt when I said I had missed twice at forty yards. “Maybe there is something wrong with my gun,” I said, “or, if you like,


I’ll admit it was rotten shooting— but what about that locked door?”

He picked up the letter from his desk and handed it to me.

“That’s from the fellow that owned the place,” he said. “He’s been living in Europe for some years —since about the time the war started. ’'

The letter was written in a sprawling, masculine hand and was dated from Warsaw, Poland:

Mr. Buell, Sir:

I have read your letter about my farm being sold for taxes. I don’t care who gets it, only you should try to see that my brother don’t get it. My brother is no good. When Poland has a war he does not go home to fight—but he persuades me I should go because he thinks I will be killed and he will get my farm. Tell my brother he should not try to get my farm. If he does I will come back and stop him.

Yours Truly

Thaddeus Ravski

P. S. If you should see any wolves around my place, don’t hurt them. They don’t do no harm.

I tossed the letter back on the desk and for a few moments neither of us said anything. Then Johnny broke the silence:

“Lomba Ravski—that’s the brother, bought the farm at the sheriff’s sale last week. He’s over at the countyseat today, getting his papers. ’ ’

“What sort of a chap is he?” I asked.

“Queer.” Johnny replied; “both of them are, for that matter. Thaddeus is the elder and inherited the farm from his father, as is customary in the old country. I imagine there was some sort of understanding that Lomba was to be taken care of—but they had a row about the time the war started. Thaddeus turned his brother off the place and shortly afterward announced that he was going home to fight for his country and went off to Poland. For a time he sent money to me to pay his taxes but he had let them lapse, of late years, and last week they sold him out.”

“And the brother,” I asked, “where’s he been all this time?”

“I don’t know. Lomba left here right after the row and hasn’t been heard of since, until a few weeks ago when he turned up and got a job in Philbin’s garage. When the sale came on, he was the only bidder. I don’t think he wants the place, except to spite his brother.” He paused, and after a moment added:

“I suppose I ought to get hold of him and warn him, before he goes out there to take possession.”

“Warn him of what?” I asked.

Johnny didn’t answer, and after a little I continued: “Lomba owns the place, apparently. Paid his money for it. You can hardly go to the man and warn him off his own property, unless you give him some good reason, such as—shall we say a werewolf?”

“Oh, bosh!” he exclaimed angrily, “you probably saw a stray dog and-”

“But the letter suggests that there might be a wolf,” I interrupted.

Johnny picked up the letter and studied it for a moment, then:

“All right, admit the wolf—but not the ‘were’ part of it. Look here,” he went on, before I could speak, “this letter was posted in Warsaw three weeks ago. Thaddeus might have started for America at the same time and got here as soon as the letter—or maybe a boat ahead of it. He is determined that his brother shan’t have the farm and he’s hiding out there to frighten him off.”

“And the wolf?” I said.

“A tame one,” Johnny answered promptly, “that he brought over with him. You’ve admitted that you have never seen one so large on this continent. Well—there you are. He brings the beast over with him to scare Lomba. When he sees you driving into the place he lets the wolf out of the house. The beast is so big that you get buck-fever and


pump a couple of shots into the hillside. Then, when it runs for eover, he lets it back into the house and locks the door. ” He leaned back in his chair and glared at me, almost defiantly. “Anyhow,” he added with a nervous laugh, “that’s my story and I: m going to stick to it.”

It was quite evident that Johnny Buell was arguing to convince himself, as well as me.

“AH right, I’ll stick to it with you,” I answered, “but just the same we shouldn’t let Lomba go out there alone. In spite of your ‘buck-fever’ diagnosis, I’m just curious enough to go with him and see what happens.”

“I’ll go, too,” Johnny answered. “Lomba is coming in here for his keys the first thing in the morning. We’ll tell him what we know and offer ourselves as a bodyguard.”

W e were waiting in the office, the following morning, when Lomba Ravski arrived. He was a short, heavily built Slav with black hair and eyes and a swarthy complexion. He was dressed as though for a holiday in an obviously new and badly fitting suit of clothes, a gaudy shirt and colorful neck scarf. The acquisition of his brother’s farm was an occasion to which he had long looked forward. He had a swaggering air of bravado that I thought a little foreed when he demanded, rather than asked for his keys.

“I go to get my farm,” he asserted defiantly, as Johnny took the keys from his desk and handed them to him. “You lawyers have hept me off my farm long enough.”

Johnny Buell smiled tolerantly and started to explain that he had nothing to do with the withholding of the property. “Until the tax sale, the title to the farm was vested in

your brother and-”

“Yealx,” Lomba broke in, “and my brother still try 1* keep me off— but I’m ready for him.”

He started for the door but Johnny stopped him,

“Just a minute, Ravski. I’ve a letter here from your brother, that I think you ought to read before you go out there.”

He handed Lomba the letter and we both watched his face with interest as he read. It had no effect, other than to increase his anger. He tossed it upon the desk with a gesture of contempt, repeating his former assertion: “I’m ready for him.”

“You saw what he said about a wolf?” I asked, entering the conversation for the first time.

“"Wolf!” he echoed scornfully; ‘ ‘ that is no wolf. It is the volhddMk. ’ ’

“Thfe what?”

‘‘Volkodldk —the—what you call, witch-wolf. It is that damn fool Thaddeus, making himself into a wolf.” He made the statement, in a matter-of-fact manner, as though he spoke of his brother dressing for a masquerade party.

Johnny and I exchanged a glance in which each of us tried, unsuccessfully, to look skeptical. In the face of Lomba’s assertion, Johnny’s attempt at a logical explanation of my adventure was not convincing. It never had been, so far as I was concerned, but Johnny Buell was unwilling to give it Up without a struggle.

“Look here, Ravski,” he said, “the doctrine of lyeanthropy was exploded, ’way back in the Seventeenth Century. Nowadays, no one but a madman beBeves that human beings can metamorphose themselves into-—

“I don’t know them words you use,” Lomba interrupted, “hut 1 do know my brother can make himself a wolf. Be learn it from my grandmother. That is what the fight was about, that time he throws me off the farm. And he don’t go home to fight for his country neither. He goes to Warsaw because there is there a guild—what you call?—a lodge of



the volkodldks. Now he comes to drive me off my farm, but I fix him for that.”

With a flourish he suddenly produced a big, nickel-plated revolver, patted it fondly with his hand and returned it to his pocket. He again started for the door and once more Johnny Buell stopped him.

“That gun,” Johnny said, “won’t help much if there is a—if things are as you say they are, out at the farm. This gentleman,” indicating me with a nod of his head, “fired two shots at a wolf on your place, yesterday afternoon. He missed both times, and,” Johnny added impressively, “he’s the best shot I know.”

Lomba shrugged his heavy shoulders and looked at me with a smile of eontempt.

“Good shooting,” he said, “don’t count against a witch-wolf. It is what you got in the gun that counts. My bullets,” he slapped the pocket which contained the revolver, “are of silver. I make them last night, over at the garage.”

Silver bullets—that, then, was the explanation of his confidence. Silver bullets, I remembered, were the only effective ammunition against witches and demons, according to the seers and metaphysicians of the Middle Ages. But I shuddered to think of anyone facing the animal I had seen, with that big, cheap revolver, no matter what it was loaded with.

“Better take us with you,” I said, and for a moment he seemed to be considering the proposition. I think the idea of going out to that lonely farm by himself was not entirely to his liking, although it was evident that he did not lack courage. But after an instant of hesitation, he shook his head.

“I go alone,” he said. “It is between Thaddeus and me, this thing.”

I thought' perhaps he was not quite so confident as he had been, but he put his hand upon the pocket where

the gun reposed and the feel of it seemed to restore his nerve. He threw back his shoulders and with a curt nod to each of us swaggered out of the room. We heard him thump heavily down the stairs and a minute later we heard a car start and drive away along the street.

After a little while, I said: “What do we do now?”

“Follow him,” Johnny answered, getting to his feet. “Wait till I get a gun.”

“And a v silver bullet?” I asked, with an attempt at facetiousness which Johnny didn’t take well.

“Don’t be a damn fool,” he answered, and went into an inner room where his hunting-equiment was kept. I had my rifle in the car and we were on the road within five minutes after Lomba Ravski had left us.

H alf an hour later I parked the car beside the road, a short distance from the farm, and Johnny and I went forward on foot, stepping cautiously and with our rifles ready for instant use. I don’t think either of us had a very clear idea of what we expected to do when we arrived. We felt, of course, that Lomba had gone into some sort of danger, the exact nature of which it was difficult to define, and we thought he should have assistance, whether he wanted it or not. But I think that a much stronger reason for our being there was the unquenchable curiosity that is aroused, even in the most hardened skeptic, by actual contact with some manifestation of the supernatural.

We stopped at the bend of the road, and taking cover behind some bushes, looked toward the house. Lomba’s car, a small semi-truck that he had borrowed from his employer, stood hub-deep in the weeds of the front yard. Except for this, the place seemed as silent and deserted as when I saw it on the previous afternoon, and I was about to advance when my companion made me a sign



to be silent. From the direction of the house there came a sound—the dull echoing of footsteps on the uncarpeted floor of an empty room.

“He seems to be making a tour of inspection,” Johnny whispered, and as he spoke the shutter of an upper window was flung open and Lomba looked out. From where we crouched, behind the bushes, we could see him plainly—his face troubled and watchful and one hand in the pocket where he carried the gun. After a little he turned back into the room and we heard his heavy steps dying away toward the rear of the house. We looked at each other, and Johnny grinned, a bit sheepishly.

‘ ‘ Guess we are on a fool \s errand, ’ ’ he said. “Everything seems to be all right and we must look rather silly, snooping about a man’s dooryard, armed with rifles —Look out! Here it comes!”

It came from the opposite side of the road, the same swift, silent monster that I had seen the day before. We had barely time to leap aside when it went by, without a glance at us, passing so close to me that I felt its hot breath upon my hand.

“Good God!” Johnny Buell cried, but it was more a prayer than an oath. Then, recovering himself, he swung his rifle up, but there was no time for a shot. In the moment that we had stood, paralyzed with fear, the wolf had crossed the front yard like a great gray shadow and disappeared around a corner of the house.

Johnny went after it on the run, and scared as I was, I had to follow. Ten feet from the house we pulled up short as the voice of Lomba came to us in a shout, high-pitched and hysterical. First there was a sputtering of Polish or Russian words that we could make nothing of, then:

‘ * Thad! Keep back, I tell you. The place is mine—you gotta get out of here or—keep back-”

The words were drowned in an

angry snarl, like that of a dog. followed instantly by the dull, thudding report of a revolver. I bounded up the step with Johnny close behind me, and together we threw ourselves against the door. The lock held, and as we drew back for ji second shove there came from within a most awful scream of agony and terror and the sound of a heavy fall. Then the door gave way before us and we plunged into the room.

Lomba Ravski lay upon his back in the middle of the dust-grimed floor, and astride of him, its great nose buried in his throat, stood the wolf. No sound came from the man, but one hand clutched feebly at the pistol, which had fallen to the floor beside him. As we staggered through the doorway, the beast lifted a bloodstained muzzle and looked at us. I was frozen in my tracks by the evil glow of the yellow eyes, but Johnny Buell jumped by me and, as the animal showed its fangs in a wicked snarl, shoved his rifle barrel against its ear and fired. The crack of the rifle echoed through the empty house, but the yellow eyes continued to stare balefully at Johnny for an instant and then turned upon the dying man on the floor. Twice more Johnny fired and then, with a terrified cry, dropped the rifle and staggered back toward the wall, covering his eyes with his hands.

Then I saw the weakly clutching fingers of Lomba reach and close upon the butt of the revolver. Slowly and painfully he lifted it, until the barrel pointed at the shaggy belly of the wolf. Slowly his forefinger curled itself about the trigger. There was a jarring report, which seemed to shake the old house to its foundations, and the wolf leaped backward with a startled, whimpering cry that was strangely human. Blood spurting from a gaping wound in its stomach, it stood swaying upon its legs and looking about the room with an expression in its eyes that I can only;



think of as one of surprize. Then, with a repetition of that, oddly human whimper, it turned and trotted through a door at the hack of the room. We heard the click of its cl'aws as it mounted a stairway and passed along a hallway above—then silence.

L ouisa was quite dead when we reached his side, his hand clutching the revolver in a vise-like grip. I took off my coat and laid it over his face, and then we both stood listening and looking up toward the ceiling, where we heard the last pattering of the feet of the wolf. Neither of us spoke and we did not look toward the thing on the floor beneath my coat. It may have been ten minutes that we stood' thus, and there was no sound from above. Finally, as though actuated by the same thought, we turned toward the door at the rear of the room.

The trad of blood led us through a dark hallway and up a flight, of rickety stains to the door of a room at. the front of the house, the same from which Lomba had looked a short time before. I hesitated at. the closed door but Johnny Buell pushed it. open— then stopped with a gasp of amazement.

What we saw was. not the beast

whose bloody track we had followed —but a man. Ho lay in a comer upon his side with his hands clasped over his stomach and blood oozing through between the fingers. His light brown eyes were open wide and had in them the same expression of startled surprize that I had seen in the eyes of the wolf. He wore rough clothing of a foreign cut, and I dad not need Johnny Buell’s words to tell me who it was.

“Thaddeus Ravski,” Johnny said in a whisper, looking about the room as though he still expected to find the wolf there. “Is he dead?” He added, his eyes coming back to the bod}’ on the floor.

I nodded. The jaw of Thaddeus Ravski was set rigidly and the hlood had ceased to flow between his fingers.

“When they die, the werewolves,” I told Johnny, “they resume human form. ’ ’

We left the house hurriedly, using the rear door to avoid passing through the room where Lomba lay. Johnny agreed to wait outside the house while I went into town for the sheriff.

‘ ‘And drive like hell, ’ ’ he said as I climbed into the car; “I can’t stand it much longer.”

I N A spacious hall, lit by tall lamps, sat a young man in evening dress, bound in an armchair. Around him stood a woman and three men. The young man’s downy mustache seemed extremely dark in his spectral face-, his gaze was fixed and mournful. The ends of his white tie hung loosely down; mud was drying on his disordered hair, on his tom white waistcoat, on his black trousers.

•‘Mr. Wilson, onee more we tender you our humble apologies! But we are acting in the service of our country, and we must haye the text of this new T secret military entente between

England and France. A general drew it up, a minister signed it, and an attache of the embassy—you—copied it! The general and the minister are both beyond our reach, so w T e are obliged to have recourse to the attach^!... Don’t look so angrily at poor Hilly— she too is serving her country! Yesterday evening in her little house you had hoped to find her—and you fotuid us, and we were dariug enough to ask you to divulge a state secret. You said: ‘No!’ So, we w r cre obliged to bring you here in a motor car, bound down to one of the seats, enveloped in a great, fur cloak, and gagged under a



chauffeur's mask. It was impossible for the passers-by to guess that this strangely, motionless chauffeur was longing to call out ‘Help!’ ” said one of the men in military tones, although his long gray hair and gold-rimmed spectacles gave him more the appearance of a German university professor than of a soldier.

‘‘These cords are torturing me,” panted the prisoner.

His eyes wandered back to the beautiful red-haired woman, who, closely wrapped up in a mantle, was passionately listening.

‘‘Loose him,” said the man with the gold-rimmed spectacles.

The other two, who were of herculean build, and evidently only subalterns, obeyed the order. But the prisoner was very weak; the floor seemed to be rocking under his feet. He fell over in a faint....

When he regained consciousness he was again sitting in the armchair.

‘‘Well? No need of cords now! A low diet, the open air, hunger, fatigue —no one can withstand these. And, if necessary, we have something better than that.... But you have only to speak, it, is so simple! Give us the outlines of this clause, and you are free. Your involuntary complicity will be a guarantee to us for your silence, and when you return home you will receive a liberal compensation.”

The young man answered: ‘‘You shall know nothing!”

Stare were still dancing before his eyes, and the humming in his ears had not ceased, while blood was dropping from his wounded wrists.

‘‘Since you are obstinate, my dear fellow, we shall be obliged to make you acquainted with Suzanne—a very charming person! But first permit me to introduce myself.... Dr. Salzmann!... These gentlemen are my friends and collaborators. Now come!”

His tone had suddenly become honeyed—ironical—terrifying.

The two big assistants supported

the dragging steps of the prisoner, but the red-haired woman remained behind.

She turned away her eyes as the captive passed her.

In a corner was the head of a winding iron staircase, which they descended in the dark. A heavy iron door opened before them, and a puff of warm air, smelling of eucalyptus, blew upon them. Fine gravel crunched under their feet with a hollow sound, as though they were in some enormous empty building. Far away, somewhere in the silence, a fountain was splashing.

The strange doctor turned on the electric light, and suddenly an enormous conservatory was revealed around them, so vast that its real size could not be gaged; for the small electric lamps, cleverly hidden among the green branches, shed but a feeble glimmering light, and nothing could be seen but foliage stretching far into the distance on all sides. Above, colossal leaves clustered gracefully on unseen branches, in dome-like groups, while, above these, others were dimly seen, and yet others. All around, above, everywhere, there was but a fantastic tangle, which it was difficult to believe belonged to the vegetable kingdom. Was there not life in these orchids, which looked full of an impotent rage? And in these green spiders, three feet high, crouching as though to spring? A confusion of terrifying creatures seemed to inhabit this warm forest, among the shadows and the glimmering lights.

No sound from outside—neither the sea flowing over the pebbles nor yet the moaning of the wind—penetrated here, but one could almost hear the intense life of all these exotic plants, so crudely green in the pale electric light.

The doctor evidently had lavished both wealth and care on this marvelous garden. Several times he stopped the group to mention, with ironical courtesy, the name of some rare plant

SUZANNE


io the captive who was panting in the heavy, suffocating air.

T he end of the conservatory was in.darkness, bnt it was just possible to sec that it had recently been altered to form a rotunda, similar to the monkey houses in zoological gardens but. with stronger trellis-work and with some enormous iron bars to further strengthen it.

A terrible apprehension aroused the young diplomat from the torpor into which he had fallen. And he suddenly noticed a sweet, sickly odor, somewhat resembling that of over-ripe bananas, lilies, or decaying dahlias, mixed with the smell of wild beasts!... One wotdd have supposed a menagerie was near....

The doctor, turning to him, said, in the peculiar, pedantic tones he had adopted: “Now, my charming young friend, allow me to introduce you to Suzanne!”

He turned on an enormous electric light hung from the roof of the rotunda. In the dazzling white glare there arose a sort of gigantic tree; its leafless boughs were waving slowly, like mighty serpents, or like the tentacles of an octopus.

The trunk, which could be seen between the movements of the horrible limbs, resembled green marble; at the base it was as thick as a man’s body, and increased in girth till, at a height of twelve or thirteen feet from the ground, it branched out into a hundred long, hairy boughs, all slowly moving as though alive. At the end of each hough, thick as an athlete’s arm, was a sort of flexible funnel which evidently possessed the power of laying hold of objects and clinging to them so that there was no escape. The shortest of these boughs were seven or eight yards long.

These monstrous tentacles wore not waving at random, but with conscious design they were reaching out toward the grating! Some stretched far

enough to seize and twist wires as thick as a cigarette.

“Ah, if the grating were not fchenn! We must enlarge this cage; Suzanne is growing too fast,” said the doctor, with a mirthless grin.

No one laughed. Although they must have seen it many times before, this horrible plant, clearly terrified the doctor’s assistants.

Wilson felt as though needles were pricking him all over. Although he was suffocating in this foul atmosphere, his teeth were chattering.

The doctor continued: ' ‘ My charming young friend, I see you are a little surprized! But as you are filled with a thirst for knowledge, I will tell you about Suzanne.

“You must have heard of the South American plant call Nepenthes which feeds on insects? When a mosquito rests on one of its twigs, the tap seizes it and all the other twigs coil around it, and it is absorbed by the plant, which, while its digestion m going on, appears to be dead. I brought one hack here from Brazil. Japanese gardeners succeed in dwarfing oaks and pine-trees till they are only a yard high; well, I experimented in a contrary direction with my Nepenthes. I tried to cultivate this little shrub, hardly as big as a rose-bush, till it should be as tall as a foi-est, tree. I noticed in Brazil that, a Nepenthes near an ant-hill, being thus better fed, acquires extraordinary dimensions.

“I began by stuffing it with fixes, and it soon became more vigorous. Then I offered it bigger anal bigger insects, such as wasps, spiders, bees, and on this diet it grew ten imhes in a few months. Then, gradually, tiny pieces of meat took the place of the inserts; Suzanne’s growth now became extraordinary and her height and strength were soon trotted.

‘ ‘ I continued increasing the size of her meals; soon she needed a steak every day; then two. One day a sparrow perched on hex’ and in a few seconds it had disappeared among the



greedy, ferocious branches; thenceforth Suzanne showed a strong predilection for living prey.

“For a year I fed her on mice, then guinea-pigs, then rabbits; besides this, her roots were watered with several pails of blood a day whicli-I ordered from the slaughter-house; under this treatment Suzanne soon reached a height of seven feet.

“Well, to cut the story short: she grew higher and higher, and in the end had to be fed on lambs, then sheep and pigs, not to mention the red water, which was doubled.

“This protecting grating has surrounded Suzanne for a long time now, for when she was scarcely five feet high she seized me one evening, and I had great difficulty in escaping from her embrace. If I had met with this adventure a few months later I should not have the pleasure of being here at this moment!

“You guess to what use Suzanne is put? If anyone refuses to give us information which our duty forces us to seek—this is the present case—we bring him to this house, tied to the seat of a motor; we then question him again, and if he remains obdurate we thrust him behind this grating; then we leave him. Of course no traces remain, and the most minute search would reveal nothing. Am I not at liberty to cultivate a Nepenthes if I choose?... Well, for the last time I ask: ‘ Will you tell us what we want to know?’ If your answer is ‘yes,’ we are all attention; if ‘no,’ Suzanne will take you in hand—and she is hungry! See how greedily her boughs are waving! How she stretches them out toward you—yes, toward you, for she understands perfectly well that you are the prey!... Why, she already smells stronger, and she is beginning to sing! ’ ’

In very truth, the fearful stench of a menagerie was growing more powerful, and the hairy tentacles, as they twisted and turned, produced a

gentle, whining sound, like that of a flight of swallows.

Wilson was filled with that unspeakable terror which whitens the hair of the bravest. But the very imminence of the danger kept his mind clear. What could he do? First, he must gain time; otherwise, this very minute would be the last of his life.

In the tone of someone who at last comes to a painful decision, he said:

‘ ‘ I have no choice left: my answer is ‘yes.’ You ■will know the treaty.... But first give me food.... I am fainting....”

‘ ‘ Bravo! I am delighted! I should have been sorry to—we will give you a meal which will loosen your tongue. And Suzanne shall not be the loser, the sweet creature!”

One of the two giants disappeared and soon returned staggering under the dead body of a whole ox, whose homed head was swinging to and fro.

He opened a very low side door and pushed his burden in.

Ten tentacles immediately snatched up the enormous bloody mass and threw it into the top of the trunk; all the boughs clasped it frantically, and it soon disappeared amid the confusion of foliage. A dreadful noise was heard, and then all was silent; the branches remained folded, giving the plant the appearance of an enormous mushroom.

‘ ‘ She would have liked you better; she prefers living creatures, ’ ’ said the doctor. “Now she will remain two hours, folded up like that and quite harmless, while the process of digestion is going on. Then the branches will fall and begin to •wave again, and it would be very imprudent then to come within their reach. Come; you will excuse me if I take you to my laboratory instead of a dining-room— this is the abode of a horticulturist.”

T he laboratory was a large room,.with walls painted gray, full of implements for the study of chemistry, electricity, bacteriology, etc.

SUZANNE


Some were of ancient shape, and Wilson remembered having seen similar ones in scientific museums, labeled “Alchemy.”

The doctor placed bread, ham, cheese and a bottle of wine before the young diplomat.

Wilson ate voraciously. The very smell of the bread intoxicated him; the ham melted in his mouth like a delicious sweet; he drank, and the taste of old Bordeaux tickled his palate.

Soon a pleasant feeling of warmth and comfort, overcame him; life began to flow through his veins. The food had made a new man of him. He began to feel optimistic, in spite of everything; he no longer despaired of escape.

If only—but he searched in vain among the instruments for a knife, a pair of compasses, anything which could serve as a weapon. There was nothing—nothing but test-tubes, bottles, funnels.

The others were carrying on a whispered conversation in a corner, without paying much attention to him.

The only thing that attracted his attention was a phial with a label bearing the word: “Chloroform.” He slipped it into his pocket. His death should be painless....

As Wilson swallowed his last mouthful. Dr. Salzmann said: “We are listening. ’ ’

There was a little wine left in the bottle. The prisoner poured it out, drank it and smacked his lips.

“You have a good cellar, sir.”

“Yes. Well?”

“Well, you scoundrels, did you really suppose I ever intended to divulge anything? I was hungry, nothing more. ’ ’

The doctor’s face puckered into a hundred wrinkles.

“That is all you have to say? Think what that great cage contains! ’ ’

‘ ‘ It contains my death, that is all; my answer remains the same! ’ ’

A few moments later, bound again,

Wilson was carried by the two giants to the rotunda. The horrible tree was still dozing, with its tentacles folded. But the awakening would come soon!

A large door was unbolted. They placed the captive against the trunk, which was warm like a living body.

The door was double-locked and bolted.

“I regret your obstinacy. You are a brave man, ’ ’ said the doctor, whose exultation seemed to have subsided like that of the tree.

He bowed and departed. The assistants gave a stiff, military salute, then made a right-about turn....

L eft alone, the prisoner first turned his attention to escaping from the horrible contact of the warn trunk; he succeeded gradually by rolling over on his side, and he did not stop till he had reached the corner of the cage farthest from the plant.

Either from forgetfulness or from cruelty, the doctor bad omitted to turn off the light; it flooded the immense conservatory, and the rotunda. In the distance, somewhere behind all the tropical plants the fountain continued its never-ceasing splash, splash....

He was lost! No hope was left! The dreadful creature would soon awaken, and thenHe thought of the chloroform; at the last moment he would inhale it and deaden all sensibility. With his free hand he took the pliial out of his pocket and left it uncorked for a few moments; a smell of fresh apple prevailed over the stench of the monster.

But he clung tenaciously to life, and his youth inspired him with confidence in the result of any fight maintained to the end. He did not give in. Horrible as his position undoubtedly was, he wanted to show fight.

They had bound him not very tightly after all, and in a few minutes, at the cost of a few scratches, he was free.



Quick to act, and concentrating all hist strength in a mighty effort, he tried first the little door, then the big one, but both resisted. He tried to smash the grating, but not a wire gave way. He tried to climb, and only wounded his hands to no effect; even had he succeeded, it would have been useless, for the tentacles would reach to the very top of the rotunda.

He oould do nothing move—only wait. He sat down with his elbows on his knees, and his face buried in his hands.

All the happy moments of his life rose before him with extraordinary distinctness—his first years at school, his travels, his successes in diplomacy.... The sweet, sad face of his mother smiled at him as clearly as when she used to sing him to sleep in Ids cot 1... And his father—what grief it would bo to the poor old man who was so proud of him!...

What Joys lie might have tasted, what great things he might, have accomplished!...

If he could only write to Milly, the traitress whom he still loved! If he could hnt throw through the grating a note which they would find afterwards!... He felt in his pockets; yes, a pen oil and paper.

With difficulty he wrote, in great round letters:

‘' Matty, I die with no hatred in my heart. T love you, and my last thought shall be of you, my everbeioved, my beautiful!”

A hissing sound caused him to look up. The plant was no longer asleep. It looked like au enormous Gorgon’s head or a nest of furious serpents; the tentacles were waving with strength. One seized upon Wilson, who, mad with terror, uncorked the bottle of chloroform and held it to his nostrils.

In his haste he let fall a drop of the liquid on the tentacle which had just clutched him by the shoulder, when, to his joy and surprize, the strange arm fell limply down beside the trunk.

Instinctively he sprinkled another enormous coil which was about to wind itself around his neck; this one, too, fell like the first, apparently dead.

But the others were whirling around him; they seized him in their embrace, and, as they waved backward in their fury, they carried him to4ho top of the pulp, above the sort of mouth in which the ox had disappeared.

Half fainting, bruised by the awful embrace, he dropped there the phial. At the same moment he fell heavily to the ground.

Here he remained motionless and dazed. What would happen next? Why were the monster’s tentacles not crushing liim? It took him a few seconds to make sure that he was on the ground, bruised but alive.

He struggled against a painful numbness, caused by the violence of his fall and the odor of the chloroform. He felt sick and faint, and a cold perspiration was pouring from him.

When, at last, lie was able to see clearly, he discovered that the horrible tree was in a new posture; all its brandies were hanging down motionless as though dead; the doctor’s frightful plant had the appearance of a gigantic weeping willow.

Ho was only a few inches from the arms which but a moment before had been so ferocious, and although they appeared harmless now, he rose hastily and took refuge in the farthest comer of the rotunda. Here the stupefying influence of the chloroform and of the fall passed away altogether, and he tried to understand what bad happened.

This was not difficult! The providential bottle of benumbing fluid had saved him, at least for the moment, from a frightful death.... All plants are sensitive to the effects of chloroform, and this carnivorous tree, which in some ways seemed to belong rather to the animal than the vegeSUZANNE


table kingdom, must have peculiarly felt the benumbing influence. At this moment it was just as insensible as a patient under a surgical operation, but. this was only a respite; it would awaken from this insensibility as it awoke after its meal, and the peril would be just as frightful as before.

But any respite from death is precious. The prisoner made another attempt to open the doors and climb up the grating, the upper parts of which perhaps were less strougly built; but again the wires only wounded his hands, and again the doors resisted all his efforts; although the monster was slumbering, escape was as impossible as ever.

VX7'ilson at last sat down again, * * weaiy and despairing; he half regretted that it was not all over, for the chloroform had only prolonged his agony. If die he must, he would rather die at once.

Time passed thus, till at last he became aware of a pale blue light which revealed first a glass dome, and then the tops of the highest of the tropical plants. At last, then, dawn had come, but this half-light was sickening, horrible. Far away — but perhaps he only imagined this—the angelus slowly rang forth. The mighty murmur of the waves, as they rose and fell, increased. Near at hand, birds were chirping.

Worn out, bruised and bleeding, almost careless of his fate, Wilson gradually yielded to sleep.

The sounds of steps aroused him from his torpor and brought him to his feet; as he gazed through the grating, he distinguished, in the distance, the silhouette of Dr. Salzmann, coming toward the rotunda.

The terrible man would find out that his victim was still alive; he would call his acolytes....

The captive hid behind the horrible tree, among the tentacles. Like a civild playing at hide-and-seek, he turned, in spite of his disgust, around the

warm trunk, dodging the doctor as the winding paths led the latter’s steps first to the right and then to the left.

When the doctor saw the extraordinary attitude of Suzanne, he uttered an exclamation erf surprize. For a moment be stood motionless, then to Wilson’s unspeakable joy bo opened the great door of the cage, and cautiously entered. With tlvo end of his stick he touched the tentacles, being careful all the time to slouch as far away as possible; but the horrible arm still hung lifeless as before.

He ventured a little nearer—and thought he saw a phantom.

Wilson had sprung away from the plant. The doctor utterod a cry of terror, and at the same moment there fell on his jaw a crushing blow.

He fell limply to the ground....

Wilson rushed out of the cage and ran along the first path he came to, but the conservatory was a perfect labyrinth, and he soon found himself back again at the rotunda. In vain he tried another path, and yet another; at test, one led him to the side of the conservatory, overlooking the sea. He brushed away the steam with his hand, and, looking through the glass, he saw in the rosy dawn a pale stretch of sands, and farther on, the green, tumultuous waves of the sea.

There were several large doors leading out of the conservatory; he opened and stepped out, but the iey air and the roar of the waves benumbed him. He found himself on a tiny balcony which ran along the side of the building, while below him was the smooth wall of the great house.

Below lay a fog, hiding the bottom of the abyss, while above, sea birds were whirling round uttering their harsh cries.

How was he to descend? Was there some means of escape?

He left the bn loony, but had walked only a few moments in the soporific heat of the conservatory when



the sound of steps, eries, shouts for help following each oilier in quick succession, caused him to turn hack. He still had a few moments in which to make good his escape, for the assistants would not immediately grasp what had happened and decide on their course of action; but, when they saw the open door, the condition of their chief, and the torpor of the plant, they would understand all too soon that their prisoner was escaping.

Again he dashed on to the balcony in search of some means by which he could descend. At one end was an iron bar, which, sti’engthened every three feet by strong cramps, rose up from the sands, followed the contour of the cliff, and then rose straight up to the top of the conservatory, where it doubtless joined a lightning-conductor; this bar passed up one end of the balcony, and Wilson believed himself saved. It was a perilous descent, but he had no choice.

He climbed over the handrail and grasped the bar, but horrible giddiness seized him; the wall, the eliff, the bar. the balcony, all danced before his distracted eyes; he had a terrible feeling of nausea, and was drenched in a cold sweat; only a supreme effort saved him from falling. Hastily climbing back on to the balcony, panting with horror, he wiped his cold, clammy hands. Was his courage going to fail him at the last moment? He tried to accustom his eyes to the sight of the abyss, but the horrible depths and the mist hiding the ground from view sent him back into the conservatory.

He lay down flat behind a clump of trees. The two giants, armed with guns, passed quite close to him without seeing him.

As soon as they had gone, he arose and ran along in the opposite direction toward the door at the foot of the iron staircase. Surely he was saved now, for he felt certain that no one else lived in the house. He could get out.

He started back. In the frame of the door he dimly saw a great green cloak, a head of glorious red hair, a pale face, a beautiful bare arm, and a hand grasping a revolver. Milly!

She stood between him and life....

With the suddenness and precision which had one day astonished him at a rifle range, and the cruelty which he now remembered he had sometimes seen flash from the beautiful green eyes, she was going toAh, no?

She stepped forth from the shadow, like a Rembrandt from its frame; tears were streaming down her cheeks, and despair was written on her features. In her other hand she held aloft the farewell letter which Wilson had written on the rotunda.

“I have read it. Forgive me—and come—quickly! * ’ she said in low tones.

He followed her. The narrow stairs hindered their steps; when they reached the top, they passed through several large rooms, a hall and a kitchen dimly lit up by the gray dawn. Then Milly stopped and turned round.

He notieed all these details as though in a dream....

She softly opened the door. The morning was icy cold; birds were twittering all round....

“Go through the kitchen garden. You will find a little door in the wall; the gardener always leaves the key in it. The path descends almost perpendicularly, then runs along beside the sea. When you come to a cross fixed into a bloek of granite, stop and wait.”

He was in the state of utter fatigue in which the will, incapable of making a choice, eagerly follows without reflection any advice. However, he stopped long enough to say: “Come with me!” Her swift gesture threw aside the mantle and revealed her exquisite ball gown, and her beautiful white neck, as she pointed to the door in the wall.

SUZANNE


* ’ Quick! ’ ’ she urged.

He hurried along. Before closing the door of the garden he turned and saw Milly still on the same spot; her attitude urged him to hasten, but at the same time expressed such poignant grief that he was tempted to return.

SHpping on the pebbles, clinging to the bushes, he descended the difficult path. An iron band seemed to encircle his head; the sea air made his eyes smart. He began to cough. When he was close to the sea, he took up a handful of water and dashed it over his face and head.

He walked a long, long way along the edge of the roaring channel till at last, in the distance, his uncertain gaze fell on a rusty iron cross on a great rock.

The horrible house, far away in the distance, was tiny and white on the bluish cliff.

Suddenly it disappeared in a mass of black smoke, while at the same time a loud report echoed and re-echoed among the rocks. All the birds around flew up into the sky....

A t noon some coast-guards found Wilson raving in delirium.

When he at last arose from an attack of brain fever he told his story, but no one believed it.

The police made inquiries, without result. Yet he was able to guide.the officer’s to the ruins of the «<#wervatory, and show an immense greasy spot, which, he declared, was where the Nepenthes had stood.

Superstitious Terror Held the Community in Its Grip

Dread at Darracombe

By VIOLET

I T WAS old Mrs. Yeoven, who lived in the cottage on the edge of the wood, who heard the terrible thing.

She was just pottering about her kitchen, doing the last necessary duties before going to befl, shaking up the cat ’s cushion, and so on, the silence only broken by the hurried ticking of the grandfatbeu’s cloak.

Then, suddenly, breaking that silence it came—a shriek of wfld, terrified agony, repeated once—twice —each time low©*, but mere heartrending, the scream of a woman in extremest fear and pain.

[. METHLEY

For a moment the old woman stood motionless, trembling from head to foot, her face working pitifully- But she was plucky, and nest instant she had palled herself together, stumbled aeross to the door, fumbled with the latch and flung it open.

’Hie uneven line of the trees in the wood stood out black against the sky, separated from where Mrs. Yeoven stood only by a strip of garden ground. And from out of fhat blackness came a low meaning of anguish, a sobbing cry: "Ooooo—eh! Oh-hh-h!” It waited and died away into choking silence.



Without waiting to put on outdoor gear, the old woman set off at an unsteady run, down the path and out along the lane, under the high, overarching hedges, her heart thumping in time to a gasping breath.

It was a bare quarter-mile to the nearest cottage, Henry Caunter’s, but Mrs. Yeoven was almost exhausted when she reached the door and beat upon it with her hands.

“Mis’ Caunter!—Mis’ Caunter!” she cried quaveringly, and the master of the house himself opened the door, standing, a burly figure, against the oblong of warmly lit kitchen.

“Why, Mrs. Yeoven!—what’s up, ma ’am? ” he asked. ‘ X'ome in and sit down. Here, Mother, ’tes Mrs. Yeoven! ’ ’

“Oh, Mis’ Caunter, you’m best come up to wood at once,” the old woman burst out. “There’s a woman —murdered there ’’

“My God, what d’you mean?” Caunter stared.

“ ’Tes true. I heard ’un—just inside wood seem’n’ly—screamin’ and shriekin’, poor soul! Somethin’ fearful, ’tips—and when I runned along, her was moanin’ and groanin’. Don’t ’ee lug, Mis’ Caunter—come ’ee along and see who ’tis. ”

“Yes, yes, Mrs. Yeoven, I’ll come— an’ I’ll get Black and Saunders, too.” Henry Caunter was already reaching up for his old-fashioned rabbitinggun.

“A lantern, too, 'e’ll want to view the poor soul,” the old woman quavered. “’Tes gashly dark in wood. ’ ’

“You’m right—Mother, gi’s the old lantern, and put a candle-end in it.”

W ith the lantern bobbing in advance, like a gigantic glowworm, the party of three men were on their way up the lane, treading heavily through the muddy ruts. Mrs. Yeoven trudged panting behind, and stopped by her own gate to watch the

light disappear into the wood’s blackness.

Quivering with dread and curiosity, she waited there, straining her old eyes, leaning, heavily on the gate. What poor soul would they find there —some gipsy tramping woman?— someone from the village?—ought she to have fetched Dr. Carew, to be ready?

Here and there through the trees she caught a glimpse of the searching lantern; presently it gleamed more brightly, was moving toward her again. Mrs. Yeoven tottered forward.

“Well, what have ’ee found?” she questioned eagerly. ‘ 1 Who’s the poor soul?’ ’

“There’s nawbody thcre-^nawbody and nothin ’, ’ ’ Caunter declared. ‘ ‘ All through wood us have searched. ’ ’

“But I tell ’ee there, is!” Mrs. Yeoven was shrill with certainty. “Shriekin’ somethin’ awful—moanin’ —groanin ’ ’ ’

“Owl, likely,” Bert Black commented gruffly.

“Owl!” Mrs. Yeoven’s voice held concentrated scorn. “As if I didn’ know owls—as if I’d not been with child-bearing women by the hundred, and didn’ know how a poor, dear soul cries out when ’tes her agony!”

Mrs. Yeoven’s experience being unquestionable and certainly unmatchable by the group of sheepish men, they found no direct answer. But Caunter shuffled his feet and replied, doggedly, “Well, if ’twas a woman, she’m gone; there’s nobody in wood; no, nor signs of blood. Combed it, so we did.”

“In the dark, an’ by that lil’ lantern!” Mrs. Yeoven snapped. “Hid under some bush she is, poor soul, an ’ if I were twenty years younger, I’d go an’ look meself, that I would!”

But the men were not to be driven to further efforts that night; they slouched sullenly away, leaving Mrs. Yeoven to sit up by herself for the night’s remainder, till she slept by



fits and starts a few hours before dawn

A fter a good night’s rest and over his breakfast, Caunter was inclined to joke with his wife over old Mother Yeoven’s fright, and to maintain the owl hjTJothesis.

“Them gashly burrds ’owl somethin’ fearful nights,” he declared, with his mouth full of bacon, and only scoffed when Mrs. Caunter ventured to say that Mrs. Yeoven, living by the wood, must have had as long an experience of owls as of child-bearing women-folk.

As was his wont, he met Bert Black and Joe Saunders at the end of the lane half an hour later, and the three slouched off workward together. But just by Darracombe Church, they were met by news, conveyed to them through the medium of the postman.

He arrested them with a jerk of the thumb toward a small whitewashed cottage opposite the vicarage.

“Heard what’s happened, you chaps?” he asked. “Young Sallie Service, she’m run away; leastways, she disappeared last night, and Mis’ Service do be in a ter’ble way, for fear summat have happened to she.”

The three listeners looked at each other, as their slow brains assimilated the news. Then Henry Caunter spoke slowly.

“Why—’spose ’twasn’t she then—” “Nay, now t’wouldn’t ha’ been she -” Bert Black demurred doubt-

fully.

“Looks as though might hev’ been

she -” Saunders drawled, and the

postman, a more alert individual, snapped them up.

“Now, what be you three talkin’ of?” he demanded, his eyes bright with an interest which became his mercurial profession!

Slowly, Caunter gave the facts and the postman nodded gravely.

“Looks nasty, uncommon nasty!” he commented. “Seems you fellows

ought to go straight to poliee station, and tell young Gipps what yon seen an’ heard last night.”

“But us didn’t see nor hear nawthing—that’s just it, ’ee see! ” Caunter protested, but the postman interrupted.

“What you might have seen an’ heard, then—’tes all the same. Look here—I’ll come along wi’ ’ee.”

E ce a forest fire rumors spread through Darracombe, and within half an hour Constable Gipps was at old Mrs. Yeoven’s, extracting her story. Before 11 o’clock he had gleaned two other policemen from neighboring hamlets and was making ready to search the wood for # the second time.

Henry Caunter, lopping a hedge, paused to watch the three stalwart, blue-clad figures disappear amongst the trees, and even to his slow brain the spring morning was overhung by a creeping horror, as he thought what they might find there—what might have been there in the darkness last night.

Little Sallie Service—the prettiest girl in the village—the girl they'd all seen grow up. If old Mother Yeoven had told the truth, it might be her body lying hidden in the wood.

Three hours of police search discovered nothing, but at dinner-time Saunders gave Henry Caunter a fresh piece of news.

‘ ‘ Seems young Ted Havant has disappeared, too,” he said, with careful carelessness.

“Wha-aa-at?” Caunter’s jaw fell in his interest.

“Yees. Funny-like, ’tes.... All same time, and after the way he’s been hanging round Sallie, ever since he corned back from sea, though her father ordered him out of house.... They tells I Mis’ Service do be half frantic-like, swearin’ as Ted done it, that he’s Sallie’s murderer.”

“Why, why, there’s no sayim’ as


the poor soul be murdered yet-”

Cauuter shuffled his feet uneasily.

“Looks like it, putting things together,” Saunders said. “That tale of Mrs. Yeoven’s sounds like dirty work iu wood, surely—fits in wi’ the rest, too—the poor girl disappearing, and Ted Havant—just as he would, if he'd done the deed.”

Constable Gipps, eager to show himself more competent than the usual Tillage policeman, was even more confident that it all fitted in, and that the only mystery about the case was the disappearance of the girl’s body.

“An’ that only means he’s hidden it more cleverly than most murderers,” the constablo declared to his cronies. “Hid it, an’ made for Plymouth, thinking to got away in a ship. Slippery chaps, these sailors, but we’re having the ports watched for him already.”

T ffAX Ted Havant had disappeared was undeniable, and even his mother eould not account for his absence. He had gone, and after a yiolent quarrel with, old Sam Service about the young sailor’s courtship of Sal lie. The girl had promised her parents that, she would see him once more, and tell Mm to go away—and Ted’s hot temper and devotion to Sallle were well known. It was easy enough to picture that final interview, and its tragic end, there hi the shadows of the wood.

Only Havant's mother, in her tiny cottage, surrounded by her son’s foreign curiosities and outlandish pets, persisted in her fierce conviction of his innocence.

“Quick-tempered my Ted may be, but he weuldn’t hurt anybody weaker than himself—not if it was to save bis life,” she declared. “Look how gentle he is with childer and beasts— the dumb creatures all love him— don't ’ee, Jacko?”

The small monkey parched in the chimney corner whimpered in answer

and sprang on to Mrs. Havant’s shoulder. She faced the young policeman with smoldering anger in her dark eyes, set in a tiny withered face, oddly monkey-like, too.

“ And 'ee say that my Ted has killed a poor young girl as he luved! Heaven pity you for the lie, Bob Gipps, and be off out of my house,” she said, low-voiced. “My Ted!”

Gipps retreated sheepishly and justified himself afterward.

“Mathers be all alike—unreasonable beings,” he declared. “ 'Tes of no use to argue with them—reckon Judas Iscariot’s, she’d say just the same to this day! Not as you’d expect Mrs. Havant to allow as Ted were a murderer—'tes against nature. But that don’t make him innocent, nV same.”

np«Eis, on the third night after the A double disappearance, the tragedy and the mystery deepened a hundredfold.

The “Blue Dove” in Danacombe had closed, a little after the legal hour, since conversation had been so absorbing in the bar and stabilized, so to speak, by the presence of Constable Gipps himself. A twice-renewed search had still failed to discover any body in the wood, and Henry Caunter and his two neighbors were still discussing the matter as they made their ways homeward in the spring darkness.

They lingered by Caunter’s gate for a few last words, glancing along the shadowy lane toward the dark barrier of trees beyond Mrs. Yeoven’s cottage.

And, suddenly, cutting in upon their slow speech came again a woman’s shriek from the wood. Hideous, heart-breaking, it wailed out through the night silence, rising higher and higher in extremest anguish, then dying down to low sobs and pitiful groans. As it sank at last into silence, Caunter spoke unsteadily.



‘ * Mercy on ns! Did—did iwer you hear the like? That—that be some poor woman dying, sure ’nough.”

Down the lane old Mrs. Yeoven came running again, half horrified, half triumphant.

“'You beared it?” she whispered. “: Tes the same, the very same—’tes she, poor girl J—poor soull”

“But—he can’t be murderin’ of she again,” Caunter stammered. “ ’Tes against all reason! ’ ’

“Reason!—reason! What hev’ that gasbly thing t© do wi’ reason?” The old woman’s voice grew shrill. “Tell! ee that be her poor, sufferin’ ghost, cryin ’ out from that whist place, as her did when her was killed, three nights agone—cryin’ out for Christian burial, and for vengeance ’pon him what did the deed.” •

With shaking, skinny hand outstretched and bare white locks flying, old Mrs. Yeoven had much of the air of a witch or prophetess, and the three men, staring at her in awed silence, felt their doubts melting away. And, almost before they could collect their thoughts, the terrible sounds came again, louder than before, and Saunders stumbled off down the lane to summon Gipps.

A third time, the wailing shrieks broke out from the wood, and the constable, listening, as white-faced as the others, did not suggest searching the place again that night. Better wait till the morning, when search would be easier....

Easier, but no more successful than before. Again the wood was ransacked from end to end by the constables, aided by a dozen volunteer helpers; the undergrowth was dragged aside, doubtful spots dug up with spade and pick. Yet, against all reason, every soul in Darracom.be, including Constable Gipps himself, was now 7 more convinced than ever that murder had been done in the wood, that the body was still concealed there, somewhere. It might seem impossible, but then so was that awful

sound which so many of them had heard, which so many mere were to hear again.

A dread more tangible than that inspired by any human murderer hung over Darracombe, a horm* of the supernatural, of the thing which cried from the wood, shaking reason to its very center. Five centuries before, all the villagers passing that dark covert of trees would have hurried past, with head averted, crossing themselves.... As it was, they avoided it, except when protected by numbers.

But a tenable fascination drew them to the neighborhood at night, since only at night had the fearsome thing been heard.

For three evenings a!most*all the inhabitants of Darracombe gathered in the lane which led to Mrs. Yeoven’s when darkness fell, hanging about the gate, from whence led the footpath to the wood, whispering, listening, hoping and yet fearing a repetition of the shrieks.

T wo nights passed in silence, but on the third, as the knots and clusters of villagers waited in whispering silence, the stillness was broken once again by those appalling shrieks and wails, dying down into bloodcurdling groans, rising again to agonized eries, dying, rising, more terrible and nerve-shaking than ever.

Mi's. Yeoven, listening with the others, shook her old head and muttered, “Aye, aye! Poor suffering soul! Her blood’s cryin’ out—that’s what it do be. Cryin’ and moanin’ from the earth, against him as did put ’nn out of the world.”

A low murmur ran through the groups of villagers, and suddenly from the outskirts of the gathering broke out frantic weeping, and a woman’s voice sobbing piteously.

“My Sallie—my li’l Bailiel”

“’Tes poor dear Mis’ Service,” men and women whispered to each other. ‘; She’m half frantic—her hus550


band didn ’ ought to have let her come »—bearin' that gashly thing-”

‘'Aye, but likely he couldn’ stop her,” another temporized. “Mrs. Havant—she'm here, too.”

“My li'l girl—my baby,” the pitiful sobbing went on. “To think of her lyin’ there—and nawthing done to find him what killed her—the cruel brute what murdered her.”

Suddenly her voice grew shrill and harsh, rose hysterically through the dusk.

“You’m all standing by—you’ve given he the chance to get clean away —that’s what you’ve done!”

“There, there, Alcie woman, don’t ’ee take on like that—don’t ’ee talk so.” Kindly Tom Service tried to soothe his wife, but she broke away from him. and ran toward where the policeman stood, clutching at his arm, raising her pitiful, working face to his.

“You—you—what be you a-doin’, Sam Gipps?” she demanded. “There be she cryin’ from the wood—cryin’ from the place where her poor body’s hid away, and you’ve not the pluck to follow that cryin’—to see where it do come from. A coward—that’s what you be, Sam Gipps! A coward!”

The constable shuffled his feet uneasily, glanced from side to side, tried to free his arm from the thin fingers which clutched it.

“We’ve searched every inch of wood, ma’am,” he said gruffly. “All the chaps know we have—and we’ll do it again tomorrow. ’ ’

“Tomorrow—when slie’m a cryin’ to you tonight!” Skinny, ineffective Mrs. Service had taken on a tragic dignity in this moment. “If ’ee be a man, go now!”

C onstable gipps hesitated only a moment, then rose to the occasion. Suddenly he drew himself up to his burly, square-shouldered height, made a gesture as though tightening his uniform belt, and strode toward the stile, beyond which the footpath, lead-

ing to the w T ood, showed pale and ghost-like.

“I be going now,” he announced firmly. “Be any of you chaps cornin’ therealong, too? If not, I be going alone. ’ ’

There was a pause, then a movement amongst the menfolk, a separating of themselves from the clustered women.

“All right, Sam, I’ll come,” one voice spoke, and the response led after it a succession of others.

“Me, too!”—“Yes, us’ll come!”— “So’ll I”—“And I-”

The group round Gipps thickened; there was a stir amongst the farther fringes of the villagers down the lane.' The constable glanced at his following, and paused, with one solid leg raised to cross the stile, to speak confidently to Mrs. Service.

“Don’t ’ee take on so, ma’am. We’ll find the body of your poor darter, for certain sure, if it be there to find-”

Startlingly and unexpectedly, Gipps was interrupted; from the shadow of the overarching trees a girl’s laugh broke out irrepressibly, then a girl’s voice.

“Body? What d’youmean? Mother, dear, what is it?”

A slim figure in a pale dress ran forward from the dusk; Mrs. Service stared wildly, spoke in a hoarse whisper, “Sallie—Sallie— alive!”

“Very much alive, Mother darling!” fresh and clear, the girl’s voice rang, followed by the sound of a kiss. ‘ ‘ There, doesn’t that tell you I’m all right? Oh, Mother, poor dear Mother, did you really think I was dead?”

“Dead—and murdered! We were sure of it, Sallie.”

“Murdered! Oh! How terrible! Poor Mother! Poor Dad! I’m sorry— I never, never meant-”

“But where were ’ee, Sallie?” Mrs. Service clung to her daughter.



“At—at Whitcombe—away on the moor—staying at the li’l inn there—’ ’ Sallie broke off, then finished boldly: “Ted and I!”

“Ted—Ted Havant!” Mrs. Service gasped. “But—but it was him as murdered you—so its thought.”

4 4 Not murdered — married! ” A man’s voice and a man’s laugh came from the tall figure behind Sallie. “You mustn’t blame her, Mrs. Service—it was all my fault. Man-ied a week ago, we were—slipped off quietly, seeing how set against me you and Mr. Serviee were. You see, we found that we just couldn’t live without each other—didn’t we, Sallie, love?”

“Yes, dear,” very softly the girl’s answer came through the dusk. “So you must try to forgive us, Dad, and Mother. After all, you felt the same —didn’t you?—before you were married. But—I hated deceivin’ you, all the same. ’ ’

A little sob broke from Mrs. Serviee.

“Oh, Sallie! li’l girl—I’ll forgive you anythin’, as you’re not dead—not murdered-”

Breaking through her last words came once again the terrible sound from the wood, rising to the wailing shrieks, sinking to the blood-chilling moans, and old Mrs. Yeoven clutched at Havant’s arm.

“There—what be that, young fellow?” she demanded, her voice still accusing. “What be that dreadsome crying—you answer me that! That’s what we did think was poor Sallie's ghostie, cryin’ on us—but what be it?”

Havant stood listening, his head raised, listened until the last weird moans liad died away into stillness, then turned to face the groups behind him, with a Mttle nod.

“So that is what it was!” he said.

“You know what it be?” Constable Gipps questioned him.

“Yes, and it’s my fault, too. though

not in the way you thought. I didn’t know what I was doing, but—look here, I’ll tell you. Six weeks ago, when I came back from my last voyage, I brought a lot of beasts and birds as usual, and one of them was from Ceylon—a small brown bird I bought in the bazar at Colombo. I didn’t know what the thing was—a bit like an owl, and a bit like a hawk, and as peevish as it could be! Wouldn’t eat, wouldn’t sing, sat and sulked in a corner, till I told Mother, a week ago, that I’d let it go loose, to save it from dying of peevishness. So I did—and when it was free, it found its voice, seemingly!”

“D’you mean to say-” Con-

stable Gipps gaped.

44 Yes. I didn’t know what it was, but I do now. It is a devil-bird. I’ve heard ’em in the Ceylon jungles; that’s the only place where they live, I believe. I thought, just as you did, that it was a woman being murdered, first time I heard it—lots of others have been taken in the same way. They’re rather rare, and they’re supposed never to be seen—I should think mine was caught by mistake, and the natives didn’t know what it was, because they’re afraid of going near ’em.”

“And d’you mean to say it’s going to stay there, a-’owlin’ its life out, and frightening the wits out of me?” Mrs. Yeoven spoke rather tartly. After all, a small brown bird was rather a come-down from stark tragedy.

“I expect it’ll die, anyway, as soon as the cold weather comes, Mrs. Yeoven,” Havant said soothingly and prophetically. “It’s a tropical bird, you see—used to hot weather, the devil-bird.”

44 A devil of a fail’d!” Constable Gipps summed up emphatically the opinion of the assembled worthies of Darraeombe. “And the less we hear of it again, the better I shall be pleased!”

Extracts from the diary of the late Dr. Franz Dietrich, F. R. 8.:

EPTEMBER I hate women. That, I suppose, is a faet too generally accepted to need elaboration, thanks to the efforts of my late wife, aided and abetted by an avidly sensational press. That my wife should sue me for divorce afforded me more relief than concern; and that she should, with a wealth of lurid detail, depict me as a fiendish scientist (or was it a scientific fiend?) was of equal unimportance. For that she caused intrusion into my personal affairs, however, and subjected my

person to annoyance and restraint to the point of persecution—for that, I hold her and her kind in bitter enmity.

According to my own belief, the relation between the sexes should be primarily intellectual, and only incidentally physical. Intellect is always merciless; and I, except in those rarer moods when I feel the sensuous lure to which my cursed flesh is co-heir with that of the rabble in the streets, have always held women in contempt and dislike. My wife did nothing to alter my opinions, whatever I may possibly have done to hers. At least, such alteration as occurred was in the

SOLA


shape of crystallizing mere opinions into positive convictions, and passive contempt into active hatred.

Yet—I still have those infrequent moods when I crave feminine companionship. It may be that I merely desire an object upon which to vent my hatred, but I am not sure that the physical element is altogether lacking in my desire.

I hope that it is.

September 18. The urge is still strong, but not strong enough. Tonight I attempted to dine with a chance acquaintance—a “pick-up” I believe the term to be—and she would have none of me. I found her strangely repulsive, and it may be that I was disagreeable. At any rate, she left me, half-way through our meal.

I can not endure those that have evolved from Eve—or was it Lilith? —and they, for their part, seem to care for me as little. I suppose, therefore, that if I am to have a woman, I shall have to create one myself, fashioned to my own order.

September 20. The idea will not leave me. It was written as a sorry gibe, but after all, why not? I believe I could do it! Already, I have produced living protoplasm. I do not see why I should not do better than Frankenstein, who was after all a scientific tyro. I have resources at my command that he could not have dreamed of.

But there’s the rub! If I succeeded, I should have only one more woman. Her body would be as I fashioned it; but I can go out now, into the streets, and buy a dozen or a hundred female bodies — animate or otherwise. I could not mold her personality, her ego, to my wish as I might construct a piece of mechanism....

I have written my own solution! Why not a mechanical woman? Mere artizans have built automatons that were capable of astounding feats: why should not I, the greatest phys-

icist of this age, surpass their attempts in ratio to our respective scientific and intellectual attainments?

It can be done —and I will do it!

February 17. It is taking shape! Five months have passed since my last entry, for I have had no time to write. I have worked to the point of exhaustion, and I feel that I must rest a moment from my labor. I should not do so, however, but for the fact that I am confronted with certain difficulties which I believe may be solved more readily if approached with a fresh mind, after an interval of rest and diversion. For the present, I am well content with my progress.

It is perhaps strange that most of my time has been devoted to the shell —the physical outline of my Galateato-be. In this, despite my reluctance, I have had to call in outside aid—a down-at-the-heels sculptor and a besotted artist. Of course, they have no idea of my true purpose, and I have used them only in connection with such molding and coloring as I did not feel competent to undertake alone. With their help, such as it was, I think I have even bested Pygmalion in the matter of beauty of outline and symmetrical proportion.

For the material of the body, I have adopted a substance of my own, somewhat similar to the composition known as Bakelite, except that it is processed to remain permanently pliable and soft. Thanks to the really remarkable skill of my drunken artist with tints, and to the natural texture of the material, its superficial resemblance to human flesh is remarkable.

Outwardly, the automaton will be completed upon the arrival of a specially constructed wig of human hair that I have ordered from Paris, and the insertion of eyes made from the same basic compound as its “flesh.” I am having a great deal of trouble with these eyes. Originally, I ordered a pair made in Switzerland, but they



were quite too artificial in appearance. The same objection attached to the ones subsequently made in my laboratory, but I believe that I have at last hit upon a formula that will overcome this fault.

What I have written gives the impression that I have neglected the mechanism of the figure, but this is not the ease. I am still at the experimental stage with much of that, however, and it will be some time before I expect anything in the way of final accomplishment.

2 CTOBER 1. My work progresses excellently. I have already cornid most of the mechanism with which I propose to animate the manikin. Much of it was fabricated as a part of its body, which is, of course, particularly true in the case of the extremities, in which the mechanism was installed integrally. There are many small details yet to be worked out, but they present no serious obstacles.

It is only now, in the perspective, that I realize what revolutionary work I have already done. I have produced several entirely new compositions in the course of my work, and adapted others in a manner hitherto unheard of. I am sure that I shall produce a very passable mechanical imitation of voluntary and intra-animate action, as a result of the work already done, but I have become mnch more ambitious than that. In abort, I am wondering if it is not within the bounds of possibility to give the figure a limited amount of.aetual if mechanical intelligence, as well as more mechanical motion. Of eourse, it would have to be dependent upon and controlled by my own thoughts, but that would be infinitely better than having it governed by nothing more than a paltry if elaborate set of clock-work. She—already I am thinking of it as “she”—is far too lovely for that.

At least, I shall make the attempt^

October 11. It is a stupendous undertaking, but there is now no doubt in my mind that I shall succeed in fabricating a purely mechanical “brain” for the automaton. 1 have already advanced to the stage where the remainder of my work will consist only of the application of completed theories and formula;, which I do not propose to set down here. Suffice it to fftty that her central “brain” will consist of the same basic material as her body, gelatinous at the core, and hardened somewhat on the outside, but still flexible, to permit of tentacular’ connections with the almost minute termini of her “nervous” mechanism.

By a process of my own, which I shall not describe further than to state that it includes the use of both ultra-violet and cathode rays, in connection with a special chemical treatment of the substance used, I have well-founded hopes of making the central mass of the brain a sensitive receptacle for my own thoughts! It has long been a scientific prophecy that a sensitive material would be ultimately developed, upon which thougl*fc waves could be recorded in much the same manner as physical impressions are imposed on the sensitized paper of a kodak film.

I have every belief that I shall be.able to accomplish something of the sort. In fact, I am determined to do so. I have spent almost a year upon the mechanism and composition of the body alone, and it is unthinkable that the prodigious labor I have expended should he wasted. Yet such will be the case if I am unable to succeed in my final attempt, since I can not bear to think of having her animated by purely mechanical means. I eould have completed her months ago, had I been content to create nothing more than a marvelously life-like mechanical figure.

I will not have her so—she shall be a Galatea in very truth, except that

SOLA


she shall live and yet not breathe the breath of life, and so shall she be free of the pettiness that inspires the spawn of Eve. Thus, if I smash her for the simple pleasure of it, she will not bear me malice after I repair her, nor haul me before courts and lunacy commissions for having done so. Her very moods will be my own, when I will that she have moods at all; and her intellect will equal my own—since, in truth, it will but mirror mine!

December 14. She is almost finished. Physically, she is already as complete, in every trivial detail, as any living woman.

I have only to make a few minor connections between her “brain” and the rest of her mechanism, and—she will think!

EC EMBER 17. It is done! She lives! She breathes! No!—thank whatever Powers there be, she does not breathe!

I have encountered success beyond my wildest dreams, and much more quickly than I had dared to hope. Perhaps that is because I have put the labor of months into as many weeks, and my heart and soul into the task. At any rate, she lives! Really lives, because her sensitive brain-core not only registers and acts upon my thoughts, but retains impulses over indefinite periods, and uses them of her own volition. My experiments, thus far, indicate that she is capable of independent motion, and a remarkable amount of initiative, from fifteen minutes to an hour after I have implanted a definite impulse upon her brain.

It is amusing to note, when these delibei’ately implanted impulses have begun to wear off, how she reacts to my random thoughts. Her erratic motions are extremely ludicrous, since my mind, when not focussed upon a definite objective, habitually leaps from point to point.

I have neglected to state that

“She” (I must give her a name!) is actually capable of some of the more pronounced facial expressions, by means of the proper “muscles” directly connected with her brain. Thus, she can smile after a fashion, although rather weakly, and frown in a really creditable manner. As her eyes are slightly mobile, and her eyelids “wink” at regular intervals, her beautiful face presents a remarkably animated and life-like appearance. In fact, she is capable of almost anything that a living woman can accomplish, except that she is mute—which is no fault, but a virtue. I purposely left her so, although I have no doubt that I should have been able to endow her with some sort of vocal apparatus. I repeat that this omission was quite intentional.

December 20. I can not think of a better, so I have given her the Spanish name of Sola. It means “alone,” and as she certainly has no counterpart, the name is more than a mere conceit.

I am almost in love with her. I am sure that I should be, except that she repulses me by her utter lack of response. She is really incapable of anything of the sort, since she has no physical senses whatever, and it would seem that, after all, I was wrong in supposing intellect to be the dominating factor in attraction between the sexes.

I do not even seem to be able to impress her mind greatly with the bare idea. Apropos of this fact, I have observed that Sola responds much more thoroughly to impressions arising from certain of my moods than to others. This is particularly true of anger, to which she is remarkably sensitive. It is possible that the thoroughness of her response to my telepathic control is in direct ratio to the vividness of my own thought; in which case it would seem that my temper is the source of my most definite emotion.



December 22. My hand trembles so that I can hardly record my thoughts. Tonight, Sola’s exquisite body, gleaming ever so softly in the light of the shaded lamp in my library, was too much for my self-control. I have neglected to set down the fact that she remains node, which is not unnatural in view of the fact that my household is without facilities to care for feminine wants. In the subdued light, she seemed startlingly alive—the more so as part of her mechanism is devised to animate her breast regularly in simulation of natural respiration.

Forgetting for the moment her mechanical composition, I seized her in my aims. My forgetfulness was short-lived, however, since, for all her response to my emotions, I might as well have had a dressmaker's wax model crushed to my breast. She could not respond to passion, however much her brain-core registered my thoughts, because she possesses no means of response. I wrote love on her hrain as I write the word here— with precisely the same result.

Realizing the futility of my actions, I flung her sprawling into the depths of a great chair, and groaned aloud. Self-ridicule spurred my anger rapidly to a pitch, and I heaped my rage upon the figure in the chair. Sola responded by stiffening as she sat., and her frown could not have been bested by any living woman. At this, my fury passed the bounds of reason, and I leaped to throttle her—smash her— anything to erase the grimace with which my own handiwork flaunted its rebellion.

“I shall wring your lovely neck for youf” I think I shouted, as I leaped forward with that very definite intention.

To my amazement and consternation, Sola leaped to meet me, and her own fingers came near to doing for me what I had intended for her. My astonishment was all that saved me, taken off guard as I was. My changed

thoughts weakened those 1 had previously implanted in her too responsive brain-eore, and weakened her purpose to where I was able to hold her off until her violent impulse had lost its force. I observed, with Misgiving, that this was not completely effected, even under direct force of my will, for upward of thirty minutes!

I shall have to he more easeful, or my Galatea may prove hem£f a Frankenstein instead. I have been unable to develop a material with whieh to insulate her against thought receptiveness, and I can not control her except through my wifL M I lose control of myself, I am likely to raise my very own anger up against me—and next time I may not be able to overcome her, for I shall not have the benefit of overwhelming surpifee to flash from my mind to hers, and so weaken her.

My safest course is to remember that she is a dangerous piece of mechanism. Since she is tt> be nothing more than that, I suppose I may as well exhibit her to a few of the nitwits who set themselves up as scientists. Stoneman and Lesseps are both bachelors, so they will be willing to lessen the misery of their loneliness on Christmas night by coming here— especially if I tell them the full truth in the invitation. They will think me extravagant (they have already testified that I am mad, damn them!) and jump at a chance to discredit my claims.

I shall write the invitation, this very minute.

Statement by Professor James Knox

Stomman, Ph.D., D.Sc., M.A., etc., of Midwestern University:

T he foregoing remarkable document, to which this is appended at the request of the civil authorities, must be accepted with certain reservations, among whieh are those affecting the motive to which Dr. Dietrich



ascribes acceptance of his invitation by Professor Henri Lesseps and myself. It is true, however’, that we considered, and do yet consider, many of the daims made for his automaton to have been other than conservative.

Even so, fairness compels me to admit that the figure was quite evidently a marvelously constructed piece of mechanism, and to pay tribute to the genius of Dr. Dietrich while maintaining my belief in his madness. In this opinion, Professor Lesseps concurs.

So life-like was the figure that Lesseps and I both bowed to it upon entering the doctor’s lihrary, where it was seated in a deep chair. The light was dim, and the impression was confirmed by the very life-like answering bow from the seated figure. It was cleverly done (by some sort of prearranged oontrols, I have no doubt) and I do not begrudge Dietrich the roar of amusement with which he observed our eivility, despite his own lack of that very quality.

“What would yon hare done, had I left her naked?” he demanded, wiping tears of merriment from his eyes with his knuckles. “Oh, yes, I clothed her especially in deference to your well-known observance of all the niceties of convention, Professor Stoneman, mid sunned die smirks of an expensive modiste to do so! However, that is beside the point. Pray be seated in those chairs, gentlemen, and I shall afford you an wchibition that yon will not soon forget. ’ ’

We accepted the chairs indicated by a flourish of his hand, and Dietrich busied himself removing the shade from the lamp on a table, and switched on other lights overhead. Wc could now recognize the automaton as sueh, although it remained startingly life-like.

Dr. Dietrich next favored us with an explanation of the principles by which t.hc figure was operated, although he was pointedly careful to omit essential details. In substance,


Bring miracles hifeo yoor life—prosperity, health, and freedom from worry. Don’t waste years waiting for these things. Create them NOW. A key to your problem is offered here.


Thoughts are material like bricks, lumber and steel. To build them you must have a definite plan—or they are wasted. Inspirations. ideas, originate in your mind, but they must be controlled, mastered, if you wish to make them servo yau. A few rules, simple and practical, will be the means of showing you how to change the course of your life to one of happiness.

Are you willing to unlock the treasures of your mind—or gambio with luck and chance?


Thousands in. America today, and in many other lands, have demonstrated marvelous changes in health, finances, peace, and joy, by using their mind power. Write today for a free copy of the book, “tight of Egypt" and change the course of your life. Address letter to:



(AMORO


(Perpetuating the Original Fraternity)



his explanation (which I do not altogether accept, and neither does Professor Lesseps) was a repetition of that already written in his diary.

“Now,” he at length exclaimed, “the proof of the pudding is in the eating, so follow my demonstration. I have already explained the principles by which Sola is animated, but, for your benefit, I shall speak the thoughts to which I desire her to respond. ’ ’

He turned to the manikin with another of his customary flourishes, and regarded it attentively. It responded to his spoken commands in a series of exercises that were truly remarkable, and it is greatly to be regretted that, as it happened, we were later unable to submit the mechanism to the thorough examination we desired. Depending upon the evidence, it must be admitted that the figure appeared to be directed solely by Dietrich’s own will.

Suddenly the doctor turned to us with an abrupt gesture. “Is she not beautiful?” he surprizingly demanded. I weighed the question, considering its irrelevance; but Lesseps, who is younger, and French into the bargain, spoke without hesitation.

“Indeed yes, Dr. Dietrich! It is a work of art! ”

Dietrich regarded his creation musingly. He seemed to have lost much of his former air of malicious triumph. “A work of art!” he finally snapped, almost savagely. “Nothing but a work of art! I shall show you just how much so. ’ ’

Then this amazing man of many moods leaped to the now still figure, and ripped off the few garments with which it was draped, even to the shoes and hose. Lesseps gasped, and I own myself to have been somewhat impressed by its symmetry of outline, although I considered his action an unnecessary exhibition of bad taste on Dietrich’s part. Under the light, its surface took on an embarrassingly life-like sheen.

‘ ‘ Beautiful! ’ ’ exclaimed Lesseps.

“Beautiful!” Dietrich echoed the word with a snarl. “A work ef art! Is it not enough to drive any man frenzied to see such beauty sc unresponsive? ’ ’

My impression of what actually followed in the next few moments is confused. Dietrich seemed suddenly to become as one demented; for, grasping a long, slinking bronze tiger which ornamented the table, he heaped vituperation upon his creation.

He rushed at the manikin, and (how, I am unprepared to explain) it met his attack as if it had been his mirrored self. Blazing hate, Dietrich backed away from the encounter. It was evident to Lesseps and me, as we sat staring with open mouths, that he was about to leap in as if in an attempt to catch his absurd opponent unawares. It was also evident that Dietrich was utterly consumed with a very frenzy of rage.

“I am ready for you, this time!” he shouted, brandishing the bronze tiger by its hind-quarters. In another instant, the weird conflict was resumed.

It was suddenly apparent that Dietrich was getting the worst of the unheard-of encounter, and Lesseps leaped to his assistance. It was well that I followed him, for it took our combined efforts to hold the manikin. While we struggled with it, Dietrich smashed at it with his improvised weapon, completely wrecking his handiwork in the end. His last blow, delivered with a culminating burst of passion, demolished the head of the figure, and it collapsed on the instant. Dietrich tottered and fell to the floor almost immediately afterward. When we picked him up and put him in a chair, he was. gasping painfully, and blood ran in trickles from the corners of his mouth.

“She battered me,” he gasped.



“Bones and flesh against her steel framework. I’m smashed inside.”

Lesseps ran to call a doctor, but the effort was useless. Dietrich had told the truth when he said he was smashed inside. The fists of his monster, steel beneath their deceptive outer covering, had splintered half his ribs, and one of them had pierced a lung.

“If only she could have loved as she could hate!” he whispered, and died.

Unquestionably the man was mad.

VOODOO

By A. LESLIE

. Night! black, pulsing night!

A night that the white stars shun; The shuddering plash of blood drops Falling, one by one!

A ghost wind wails in the high, bleak sky,

And dares not come to earth, While croaking voices mock its moan With shrieks of obscene mirth.

Hell-scarlet lips, and gleaming eyes, And bodies carved from jet;

With a ghastly dew that curdles fast The snake-pressed grass is wet.

Shadows! slithering shadows!

With stealthy menace rife;

One ghostly beam, a wicked gleam— The stored-up light of a knife.

The stabbing glow writhes dully ’Neath a crawling mist of red; And cleaving the clutching shadows, Something whimpers overhead!


WANTED

We Paid $200

to J.D.MARTINof Virginia FOR JUST ONE COPPER CENT

ESHSsES

■fe„ 8 i lver dolIar,-, Mrs - O. F. Adams. >740 for some old coins. W. F.WilPennsylvania, $13,500 for his i «u c coins. In the last 20 years we have paid hundred# of others handsome premiums.

A BuufnS f s o tll C p 0. 1 w’” e t2: u

Right now we’ll pay $50 for 1913 Liberty Head nickels (not Buffalo) $100 for 1894 dimes S”Mint. $8.00forl853 ters, no arrows. $200each for 1884

- 1885 Silver Trade Doliars. 10c

each for 1912 ‘‘S’’ Mint nickels, etc. Big Cash Premiums tor Hundreds ol Coins siowCtrculatlug We want thousands of old coins and ■will pay Big Cash Premiums to get them. We offer up to $1,000 premium for certain coins and lesser amounts for hundreds of others. Send 4 cents for our large, illustrated Coin Folder. Its contents will amaze you. No obligation on your part.

It may mean much pro6t to you. You have nothing to lose and everything to gain.

Send

this

COUPON

fg. N07 ^

NUMISMATIC COMPANY OF TEXAS, Dept 261, Fort Worth, Texas.

Please send me your large Illustrated Coin Folder for which I enclose 4 cents.

Name

Address

City

State.

The Signal-Man

By CHARLES DICKENS

ALLOA! Below there!” When lie heard a voice thus calling to him, he was standing at the door of his box, with a flag 1 in his hand, furled round its short pole. One would have thought, considering the nature of the ground, that he could not have doubted from what quarter the voice came; but instead of looking up to where I stood on the top of the steep cutting nearly over his head, he turned himself about, and looked down the Line. There was something remarkable in his manner of doing so, though I could not have said for my life what. But I know it was remarkable enough to attract my notice, even though his figure was foreshortened and shadowed, down in the deep trench, and mine was high above him, so steeped in the glow of an angry sunset, that I had shaded my eyes with my hand before I saw him at all.

“Halloa! Below!”

From looking down the Line, he turned himself about again, and, raising his eyes, saw my figure high above him.

“Is there any path by wkieh I can come down mid speak to you'?”

He looked up at me without reply560

ing, and I looked down at him without pressing him too soon with a repetition of my idle question. Just then there came a vague vibration in the earth and air, quickly changing into a violent pulsation, and an oncoming rush that caused me tp start back, as though it had a force to draw me down. “When such vapor as rose to my height from this rapid train had passed me, and was skimming away over the landscape, I looked down again, and saw him refolding the flag he had shown while the train went by.

I repeated my inquiry. After a pause, during which he seemed to regard me with fixed attention, he motioned with his rolled-up flag toward a point on my level, some two or three hundred yards distant. I culled down to him, “All right!” and made for that point. There, liy dint of* looking closely about me, I found a rough *dgzag descending path notched out, wMeh I followed

The cutting was extremely deep, and unusually precipitate. It was made through a clammy stone, that became cozier and wetter as I went down. For these reasons, I found the way long enough to give me time to


56]

recall a singular air of reluctance or compulsion with which he had pointed out the path.

When I came down low enough upon the zigzag descent to see him again, I saw that he was standing between the rails on the way by which the train had lately passed, in an attitude as if he were waiting for me to appear. He had his left hand at his chin, and that left elbow rested on his right hand, crossed over his breast. His attitude was one of such expectation and watchfulness that I stopped a moment, wondering at it.

I resumed my downward way, and stepping out upon the level of the railroad, and drawing nearer to him, saw that he was a dark, sallow man, with a dark beard, and rather heavy eyebrows. His post was in as solitary and dismal a place as ever I saw. On either side, a dripping-wet wall of jagged stone, excluding all view but a strip of sky; the perspective one way only a crooked prolongation of this great dungeon; the shorter perspective in the other direction terminating in a gloomy red light, and the gloomier entrance to a black tunnel, in whose massive architecture there was a barbarous, depressing, and forbidding air. So little sunlight ever found its way to this spot, that it had an earthy, deadly smell; and so much cold wind rushed through it, that it struck chill to me, as if I had left the natural world.

Before he stirred, I was near enough to him to have touched him. Not even then removing his eyes from mine, he stepped back one step, and lifted his hand.

This was a lonesome post to occupy (I said), and it had riveted my attention when I looked down from up yonder, A visitor was a rarity, I should suppose; not an unwelcome rarity, I hoped? In me, he merely saw a man who had been shut up within narrow limits all his life, and who, being at last set free, had a newly awakened interest in these

IT IS NOT TOO LATE—

to read one of the most popular stories that has been printed in this magazine to date. Through popular demand we have published a cloth-bound edition of “The Moon Terror,” by A. G. Birch, to satisfy those who were not fortunate enough to read this startling story when it appeared serially in the early issues of Weird Tales.


This book is beautifully bound in rich blue cloth with attractive orange-colored jacket and is for sale direct from the publishers at the special price of $1.50 postpaid.

Remember, this edition is limited and this offer is good only as long as the supply lasts. Send for this fascinating book now while it is fresh in your mind.

640N. SMMJ: fllinoig.

Ne



great works. To such purpose I spoke to him; but I am far from sure of the terms I used; for’, besides that I am not happy in opening any conversation, there was something in the man that daunted me.

He directed a most curious look toward the red light near the tunnel's mouth, and looked all about it, as if something were missing from it, and then looked at me.

That light, was part of his charge? Was it not?

He answered in a low voice, “Don’t you know it is?”

The monstrous thought came into my mind, as I perused the fixed eyes and the saturnine face, that this was a spirit, not a man. I have speculated since, whether there may have been infection hi my mind.

In my turn, I stepped back. But in making the action, I detected in his eyes some latent fear of me. This put the monstrous thought to flight.

“You look at me/’ I said, forcing a smile, “as if you had a dread of me.”

“I was doubtful,” he returned, “whether I bad seen you before.”

“Where?”

He pointed to the red light he had looked at.

“There?” I said.

Intently watchful of me, he replied (but without sound), “Yes.”

“My good fellow, what should I do there? However, be that as it may, I never was there, you may swear. ’ ’

“I think I may,” he rejoined. “Yes; I am sure I may.”

His manner cleared, like my own. He replied to my remarks with readiness, and in well-chosen words.

He took me into his box, where there was a fire, a desk for an official book in which he had to make certain entries, a telegraphic instrument with its dial, face, and needles, and the little bell of which he had spoken. On my trusting that he would excuse the remark that he had been well edu-

cated, and (I hoped I might say without. offense) perhaps educated above that station, he observed that instances of slight incongruity in such wise would rarely be found wanting among forge bodies of men; that he had heal’d it was so in workhouses, in the police force, even in that last desperate resource, the army, and that he knew it was so, more or less, in any great railway staff. He had been, when young (if I could believe it, sitting in that hut—he scarcely could), a student of natural philosophy, and had attended lectures; but he had run wild, misused hie opportunities, gone down, and never men again. He had no complaint to offer about that. He had made his bed, and he ley upon it. It was far too late to make another.

In a word, I should have set this man down as one of the safest of men to be employed in that capacity, but for the circumstance that while he was speaking to me lie twice broke off with a fallen color, turned his face toward the little bell when it did not ring, opened the door of the hut (which was kept shut to exclude the unhealthy damp), and looked out toward the red light near the mouth of the tunnel. On both of those occasions, he came back to the fire with the inexplicable air upon him which I had remarked, without being able to define, when we were so far asunder.

Said I, when I rose to leave him, “You almost make me think that I have met with a contented mam.”

(I am afraid I must acknowledge that I said it to lead him on.)

“I believe I used to be so,” he rejoined. in the low voice in which he had first spoken: “but I am troubled, sir, I am troubled.”

He would have recalled the words if he could. He had said them, however, and I took them up quickly.

“With what? What is your trouble?”

“It is very difficult to impart, sir. It is very, very difficult to speak of.



If ever you make me another visit, I I will try to tell you.”

“But I expressly intend to make i you another visit. Say, when shall it! be?”

' • I go off early in the morning, and j I shall be on again at ten tomorrow night, sir. ’ ’

“I will come at eleven.’’

He thanked me, and went out at the door with me. “I’ll show my i white light, sir,” he said, in his pecul- j iar, low voice, “till you have found. the way up. Wlien you have found! it, don’t call out! And when you are i at the top, don’t call out!”

His manner seemed to make the | plaeo strifes colder to me, but I said j no more than “Very well.”

“And when you come down to- i morrow night, don’t call out! Let me ’ ask you a parting question. What made you cry, ‘Halloa! Below there!’ tonight?”

“Heaven knows,” said I. “I cried something to that effect-”

‘ ‘ Not to tliat effect, sir. Those were the very words. I know them well.” j

“Admit those were the very words.

L said them, no doubt, because I saw you below.”

‘ ‘ For no other reason? ’ ’

“ What other reason could I possibly have?”

“You had no feeling that they were conveyed to you in any supernatural way?”

“No.”

Ho wished me good-night, and held! up his light. I walked by the side of the down Line of rails (with a very j disagreeable sensation of a train com- i ing behind me) until I found the path. \ It was easier to mount than to de- \ scend, and I got back to my inn without any adventure.

Punctual to my appointment, I placed my foot on the first notch 1 of the zigzag next night, as the dis-! tant clocks were striking eleven. He

from dear old Terra Eirma— in this thrilling yarn of strange adventures—and virile imagination. It's a trip worth taking.

Special First Edition Autographed by Author

^ Pallet

Just Off the Press l

If you are one of those who enjoyed Mr. Klino's first book, “The Planet of Peril," we feel certain that you will enjoy his nicest book, “Maza of the Moon,” equally as well?

Adventure follows adventure in amazing pageantry. Read of Tod Dustin's terrifying encounters with the diabolical plots of the cruel P"an-ku, the usurping ruler of the Earth’s mysterious companion, the Moon, in his romance with Maza, the girl-queen of the Moon. Each turu of the 1 »ge increases the suspense. The fascination of its utter stupendousuess grows with eat* chapter. Exciting adventures, gripping suspense, pleasing fascination—It’s a story with a punch!

wiU be mailed t(

e., Chicago, ti u postpaid.



was waiting for me at the bottom, with his white light on.

“I have not called out,” I said, when we came close together; “may I speak now?”

“By all means, sir.”

“Good-night, then, and here’s my hand.”

“Good-night, sir, and here’s mine.”

With that we walked side by side to his box, entered it, closed the door, and sat down by the fire.

“I have made up my mind, sir,” he began, bending forward as soon as we were seated, and speaking in a tone but a little above a whisper, “that you shall not. have to ask me twice what troubles me. I took you for someone else yesterday evening. That troubles me. ’ ’

“That mistake?”

‘ * No. That someone else. ’ ’

“Who is it?”

“I don’t know.”

*‘Like me?”

“I don’t know. I never saw the face. The left arm is across the face, and the right arm is waved—violently waved. This way.”

I followed his action with my eyes, and it was the action of an arm gesticulating, with the utmost passion and vehemence, “For God’s sake, clear the way.”

“One moonlight night,” said the man, “I was sitting here, when I heard a voice cry, ‘Halloa! Below there!’ I started up, looked from that door, and saw this Someone else standing by the red light near the tunnel, waving as I just now showed you. The voice seemed hoarse with shouting, and it cried, ‘ Look out! Look out!’ And then again, ‘Halloa! Below there! Look out! ’ I caught up my lamp, turned it on red, and ran toward the figure, calling, ‘What’s wrong? What has happened? Where?’ It stood just outside the blackness of

the tunnel. I advanced so close upon it that I wondered at its keeping the sleeve across its eyes. I ran right up at it, and had my hand stretched out to pull the sleeve away, when it was gone. ’ ’

“Into the tunnel?” said I.

“No. I ran on into the tunnel, five hundred yards. I stopped, and held up my lamp above my head, and saw the figures of the measured distance, and saw the wet stains stealing down the falls and trickling through the arch. I ran out again faster than I had run in (for I had a mortal abhorrence of the place upon me), and I looked all round the red light with my own red light, and I went up the iron ladder to the gallery atop of it, and I came down again, and ran back here. I telegraphed both ways, ‘An alarm has been given. Is anything wrong? ’ The answer came back, both ways, ‘All well.’ ”

Resisting the slow touch of a frozen finger tracing out my spine, I showed him how that this figure must be a deception of his sense of sight; and how that figures, originating in disease of the delicate nerves that minister to the functions of the eye, were known to have often troubled patients, some of whom had become conscious of the nature of their affliction, and had even proved it by experiments upon themselves. “As to an imaginary cry,’’ said I, “do but listen for a moment to the wind in this unnatural valley while we speak so low, and to the wild harp it makes of the telegraph wires.”

That was all very well, he returned, after he had sat listening for a while, and he ought to know something of the wind and the wires—he who so often passed long winter nights there, alone and watching. But he would beg to remark that he had not finished.

I asked his pardon, and he slowly



added these words, touching my arm:

“Within six hours after the Appearance, the memorable accident on this Line happened, and within ten hours the dead and wounded were brought along through the tunnel over the spot where the figure had stood.”

A disagreeable shudder crept over me, but I did my best against it. It was not to be denied, I rejoined, that this was a remarkable coincidence, calculated deeply to impress his mind. But it was unquestionable that remarkable coincidences did continually occur, and they must be taken into account in dealing with such a subject. Though, to be sure, I must admit, I added (for I thought I saw that he was going to bring the objection to bear upon me), men of common sense did not allow much for coincidences in making the ordinary calculations of life.

He again begged to remark that he had not finished.

I again begged his pardon for being betrayed into interruptions.

“This,” he said, again laying his hand upon my arm, and glancing over his shoulder with hollow eyes, “was just a year ago. Six or seven months passed, and I had recovered from the surprize and shock, when one morning, as the day was breaking, I, standing at the door, looked towards the red light, and saw the specter again.” He stopped, with a fixed look at me.

“Did it cry out?”

“No. It was silent.”

“Did it wave its arm?”

“No. It leaned against the shaft of the light, with both hands before the face. Like this.”

Once more I followed his actions with my eyes. It was an action of mourning. I have seen such an attitude in stone figures on tombs.

“Did you go up to it?”

“I came in and sat down, partly j to collect my thoughts, partly because |

SKhhhhhhh

ShhhhhH

Shhhh

What was the weird cry that made Gloria tremble? What phantom sought to lead the supposed Van Mortimer, king of Wall Street, to a weird coffin?

A mystery story that defies imagination in its unusual treat of being truly unusual.

Slater La Master

WEIRD^TAT.ES, Book Dcpt.^^ mailed to you postpaid.

p Years from TODAY

We travel with Loto, the man who conquers time, as the Wright Brothers conquered the air—to a land that lives long after our own civilization has died—to meet Azeele and Dianne —to attend the sensuous Flower Festival — and to return, but not alone, in this scientific yarn.

an Who astered Time

By Ray Cummings

Mail $2 to WEIRD TALES, Book Dept. O, 840 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago, and this book will be mailed to you postpaid.



it had turned me faint. When I went to the door again, daylight was above me, and the ghost was gone.”

“But nothing followed? Nothing came of this?”

He touched me on the arm with his forefinger twice or thrice, giving a ghastly nod each time:

“That very day, as a train came out of the tunnel, I noticed, at a carriage window on my side, what looked like a confusion of hands and heads, and something waved. I saw it just in time to signal the driver, Stop! He shut off, and put his brakes on, but the train drifted past here a hundred and fifty yards or more. I ran after it, and, as I went along, heard terrible screams and cries. A beautiful young lady had died instantaneously in one of the compartments and was brought in here, and laid down on this floor between us.”

Involuntarily I pushed my chair back, as I looked from the boards at which he pointed to himself.

“True, sir. True. Precisely as it happened, so I tell it yon. ’ ’

I could think of nothing to say, to any purpose, and my mouth was very dry. The wind and the wires took up the story with a long, lamenting wail.

He resumed. “Now, sir, mark this, and judge how my mind is troubled. The specter came back a week ago. Ever since, it has been there, now and again, by fits and starts.”

“At the light?”

‘ ‘ At the Danger-light. ’ ’

“What does it seem to do?”

He repeated, if possible with increased passion and vehemence, that farmer gesticulation of “For God’s sake, clear the way!”

Tnen he went on. “I have no peace or rest for it. It eaHs to me, for many minutes together, in an agonized manner, ‘Below there! Look out! Look out!’ It stands waving at me. It rings my little hell-”

I caught at that. “Did it ring your

bell yesterday evening when I was here, and you went to the door?”

“Twice.”

“Why, see,” said I, “how your imagination misleads you. My eyes were on the bell, and my ears were open to the bell, and if I am a Jiving man, it did not ring at these times. No, nor at any other time, except when it was rung in the natural course of physical things by the station communicating with you. ’ ’

He shook his bead. “I have never made a mistake as to that yet, sir. I have never confused the specter’s ring with the man’s. The ghost’s ring is a strange vibration in the beU that it derives from nothing else, and I have not asserted that, the bell stirs to the eye. I don’t wonder that yon flailed to hear it. But 1 heard it.”

“And did the specter seem to be there, when you looked out?”

“It wan there.”

“Both times?”

He repeated firmly: “Both times.”

“Will you come to the door with me, and look for it now?”

He hit his under lip as tlmugh he were somewhat unwilling, but arose. I opened the door, and stood on the step, while he stood in the doorway. There.was the Danger-light. There was the dismal mouth of the tunnel. There were Hie high, wet, stone walls of the cutting. There were the stars above them.

“Do you see it?” I asked him, taking particular note of his face. His eyes were prominent and strained, but not very much more so, perhaps, than my own had been when I had directed them earnestly towards the same spot.

“No/’ he answered. “It is not there. ’ ’

“Agreed,” said I.

W e went in again, shut the door, and resumed our seats. I was thinking how best to improve this advantage, if it might be called one,



when he took up the conversation in such a matter-of-course way, so assuming that there could be no serious question of fact between us, that I felt myself placed in the weakest of positions.

“By this time you will fully understand, sir,” he said, “that what troubles me so dreadfully is the question, What does the specter mean?”

I was not sure, I told him, that I Idid fully understand.

“What is its warning against?” he said,, ruminating, with his eyes on the fire, and only by times turning them on me. “What is the danger? What is the danger? There is danger over-, hanging somewhere on the Line. Some dreadful calamity will happen. It is not to be doubted this third time, after what has gone before. But surely this is a cruel haunting of me. What can I do? ”

He pulled out his handkerchief, and wiped the drops from his heated forehead.

“If I telegraph Danger, on either side of me, or on both, I can give no reason for it,” he went on, wiping the palms of his hands. “I should get into trouble, and do no good. They would think I was mad. This is the way it would work—Message: ‘Danger! Take care!’ Answer: ‘What Danger? Where?’ Message: ‘Don’t know. But, for God’s sake, take care! ’ They would displace me. What else could they do? ”

His pain of mind was most pitiable to see. It was the mental torture of a conscientious man, oppressed beyond endurance by an unintelligible responsibility involving life.

“When it first stood under the Danger-light,” he went on, putting his dark hair back from his head, and drawing his hands outward across and across his temples in an extremity of feverish distress, “why not tell me where that accident was to happen— if it must happen? Why not tell me how it could be averted—if it could


LOOK in your mirror in Just a few days 1 after you do as instructed, and behold the clear, new. youth-like skin and beauty complexion, instead of seeing those awful "things” in your skin called pimples, blackheads, large pores, freckles, signs of aging and other ugly blemishes that hide the true beauty you possess but do not know it.

A new discovery now actually peels them off harmlessly, and they’re pone for good, not covered up as with paint:ui'd powder. It’s tho

Peel Off The Ugly

“THINGS”!

Get Rid of Those Pimples, Blackheads, Freckles and Blemishes This New Way!



have been averted? When on its second coming it hid its face, why not tell me, instead, ‘She is going to die. Let them keep her at home?’ If it came, on those two occasions, only to Show me that its warnings were true, and so to prepare me for the third, why not warn me plainly now? And I, Lord help me! A mere poor signalman on this solitary station! Why not go to somebody with credit to be believed, and power to act? ”

When I saw him in this state, I saw that for the poor man ’>s sake, as well as for the public safety, what I had to do for the time was to eompose Ids mind. Therefore, setting aside all question of reality or unreality between us, I represented to him that whoever thoroughly discharged his duty must do well, and that at least it was his comfort that he understood his duty, though he did not understand these confounding Appearances. In this effort I succeeded far better than in the attempt to reason him out of his conviction. He became calm; the occupations incidental to his post as the night advanced began, to make larger demands on his attention: and I left him at two in the morning. I had offered to stay through the night, but lie would not hear of it.

That I more than once looked back at the red light as I ascended the pathway, that I did not like the red light, and that I should have slept but poorly if my bed had been under it, I see no reason to conceal. Nor did I like the two sequences of the accident and the dead girl. I see no reason to conceal that either.

But, what ran most in my thoughts was the consideration how ought I to aet, having become the recipient of this disclosure? I had proved the man to be intelligent, vigilant, painstaking, and exact; but how long might he remain so, in his state of mind? Though in a subordinate position, still he held a most important trust, and would I (for instance) like to stake

my own life on the chances of his continuing to execute it with precision?

Unable to overcome a feeling that there would be something treacherous in my communicating what he had told me to his superiors in the Company, without first being plain with himself and proposing a middle course to him, I Ultimately resolved to offer to accompany him (otherwise keeping his secret for the present.) to the wisest medical praeftUonel* we could hear of in those parts, and to take his ©pinkm. A change in his time of duty would come round nest night, lie had apprised me, and he would be off an hour or two after sunrise, and on again soon after sunset. 1 had appointed to return accordingly.

N ext evening was a lovely evening, and I walked out early to enjoy it. The sun was not yet quite down when I traversed the field-path near the top of the deep cutting. I would extend my walk for an hour, I said to myself, half an hour on and half an hour back, and it would then be time to go to my signal-man ’s box.

Before pursuing my stroll, I stepped to tbe brink, and mechanically looked down, from the point from which I had first seen him. I ean not describe the thrill that seized upon me, when, close at the mouth of the tunnel, I saw the appearance of a man, with his left sleeve across his eyes, passionately waving his right am.

The nameless horror that oppressed me passed in a moment, for in a moment I saw that this appearanee of a man was a man indeed, and that there was a little group of other men, standing at a short distance, to whom he seemed to be rehearsing the gesture he made. The Danger-light was not yet lighted. Against its shaft, a little low hut, entirely new to me, had been made of some wooden supports and tarpaulin. It looked no bigger than a bed.



“What is the matter?” I asked the men.

“Signal-man killed this morning, sir.”

“Not the man belonging to that box?”

“Yes, sir.”

“Not the man I know?”

“ You will recognize him, sir, if you knew him,” said the man who spoke for the others, solemnly uncovering his own head, and raising an end of the tarpaulin, “for his face is quite composed.”

“Oh, how did this happen*? how did this happen?” I asked, turning from one to another as the hut closed in again.

“He was cut down by an engine, sir. No man in England knew his work better. But somehow he was not cleai’ of the outer rail. It was just at broad day. He had struck the light, and had the lamp in his hand. As the engine came out of the tunnel, his back was toward her, and she cut him down. That man drove her, and he was showing how it happened. Show the gentleman, Tom. ’ ’

The man, who wore a rough, dark dress, stepped back to his former place at the mouth of the tunnel.

“Coming round the curve in the tunnel, sir,” he said, “I saw him at the end, like as if I saw him down a perspective-glass. There was no time to cheek speed, and I knew him to be very careful. As he didn’t seem to take heed of the whistle, I shut it off when we were running down upon him, and called to Mm as loud as I could.”

‘‘ What, did you say?”

“I said, ‘Below there! Look out! Look out! For Cod’s sake, clear the way!’ ”

I started.

“Ah! it was a dreadful time, sir. I never left off callkig to him. I put this arm before my eyes not to see, and I waved this arm to the last; but it was no use.”


Your physician will tell you that hernia (rupture) Is a muscular weakness in the abdominal wall..—Do not be satisfied with merely bracing these weakened muscles, with your condition probably growing worse every day!—Strike at tne real cause of the trouble, and

WHEN —

The weakened muscles recover their strength and elasticity, and—

The unsightly, unnatural protrusion disappears, and—

You recover your vim, vigor and vitality.— your strength and- energy.—and you look

s notice the difference,—

THEN—

SPou’U know your rupture is gone, and You’ll know wtiy for almost a quarter of a century numerous sworn statements report complete recovery and freedom from uncomfortable mechanical supports, without delay from work.


df-treatmcnt mennr available to you. d, man or woman.

... _____ „„ _ke this test.—For

your own goed mall the coupon NOW—TODAY.


riiHMin Co„ 608 Stmirt Bldg., S(. Louis, Mo.

.Send me a Free 10 day test supply of the remedial factor Plapao and 48-page illustrated book on Bupture; no charge for this now Or later.

HOW TO 08TAIN

A Befier Looking Nose!

Improve your personal appearance

Character Analysis—

I. T3ARN WHAT 19.10 has ill store for you. Do you know what your strong and weak points are. Will you be lucky. Will 1910 be a profitable year for you. Cansult It for business,, love, courtship, marrlagq, speculation. health, etc. Scud birthd.Tte with 26c.

J. HI. Simmons, 109 N. Dearborn, Chicago, 111.

SONG POKM WIUTKUfr—c’RKAl/’ ritOPOHTtion. Hibbeler, D-156, 2104 N. Keystone,

Chicago,



The Dust of Egypt

(Continued from page 462)

eggs grow in the body of their victim. And when your unde read of the young Englishman’s death, and how he was the tentli to die of those who opened Tutankhamen’s tomb, such doubts as he might have had disappeared utterly. He did resign himself to death by Sepa’s vengeance.

“Your sister, being sensitive to thought-influence, at length became infected, too. It was as if your uncle, all unknowingly, transferred his fearful thoughts to her subconscious mind, much as a hypnotist imposes his thought and will upon his subject. Your sister is tall, stately, beautiful. She had the peculiar greenish eyes which go with mysticism. What more natural than that your unde should have conceived the Goddess Aset as in your sister’s image, and, so conceiving. impregnated your sister with his thought. All unknowingly, she was to him, and to herself, the veiy incarnation of that olden one—that probably non-existent, one—whose wrath had been called down on Monsieur your kinsman by the curse-stone found in Sepa’s grave.

“Very good. Upon the night in which your imcle died your sister did arise, descend the stairs into the museum, and there equip herself with the garments once worn by some Egyptian priestess. Consider, now: She did not consciously know what was in those cabinets below, she knew not which keys fitted the locks, she did not know how the ancient priestesses arrayed themselves, for she had no knowledge of archeology; yet she went unerringly to the proper case, chose the proper trappings, and donned them in the proper manner. Why? Because your uncle’s thought guided her!

“All this she did at the urge of her subconscious mind. Her conscious mind, by which she recognized exter-

nal things, was fast asleep meanwhile. Yet so deftly did her dreamcommanded mind order the disguise that she even went so far as to trace the likeness of open, staring eyes upon her lids with phosphorescent paint.

“And then, arrayed as Aset, she did repair to your uncle’s room, and with her went the thought-concept of another one, the thought-induced and thought-begotten likeness of the longdead Sepa.

“With ancient ritual she read aloud your uncle’s doom, the doom he had decreed upon himself by his persistent thought, and he—poor man!—believing that his doom was sealed, did die for very fright.

“Now, concerning yourself: Like her, you knew of the curse; like her you had read of the death of the young Englishman who violated the tomb of Tutankhamen. Very well. Subconsciously you feared the curse which Sepa had put upon your uncle and your uncle’s kin hovered over you. Although you strove to shake it off, the thought would not die, for the more you dismissed it from your conscious mind, the deeper it penetrated into your subconscious, there te fester like a septic splinter in one’s finger. Yes.

“Last night was the crucial time. Once more Mademoiselle your sister donned Aset’s unholy livery; once more she did pronounce the doom of Sepa upon your uncle’s kin—and, parbleu, she did almost succeed in doing it! Friend Trowbridge and I were not a second too soon, I damn think.”

‘ ‘ But the mark—the mark on Uncle Absalom’s breast, and which Dr. Trowbridge said appeared on mine, too; what of that?” young Monteith persisted.

“Perhaps you have not seen it, but



I have,’’ de Grandin returned: “a hypnotist can, by his bare mental command, cause the blood to leave his subject’s arm, and make the member become white and cold as death. So with the death-sign on your uncle’s breast, and yours. It was but the stigma of a mental order—a thought made physically manifest.”

“But what did you do—what did you use?” Monteith demanded. “I saw you drive the ghost of Sepa from the room with something. What was it?”

“To understand, you must know the history of Isis,” de Grandin answered. “Her cult was one of the most powerful of all the aneient world. Despite the sternest opposition she had her votaries in both Greece and Rome, and she was the last of the old gods to be expelled from Egypt, for notwithstanding the Christianizing of the land and the great strength of the Alexandrian Church, her shrine at Pkilae continued to draw worshipers until the Sixth Century of our era.

“Now, while Christianity still struggled with the remnant of the olden faiths there lived in Alexandria a certain priest named Cyril, a very holy man, who by virtue of his piety wrought many miracles. Also, when more than once the women of his congregation declared themselves spellbound by the ancient Goddess Aset, he was wont to cast the spell from off them by the use of a certain sacred amulet, a little cross of gold supposed to hold a tiny remnant of the True Cross within itself. This very sacred reliquary is in the present custody of the Papa of the Greek Orthodox Church in Harrisonville. Often have I heard the old man speak of it.

“Accordingly, when we came here to ‘Journey’s End’ to try conclusions with the ancient gods of Egypt, I begged the use of that same relic from its custodian and brought it -with me.

“And, as I have said, thoughts have power. It was the thought of Priest Sepa’s ancient curse which worked

Let Me ShowYou

A scientific way to success

Africa, in fact from all the countries e English is spoken anti I rei money in all casea^of^dissatislogical Adriser to the Aristocracy ol Birth and Intellect. Write your name • ess, and date of birth plainly dock letters. Address: "Pundit sre" (Dept. 4*6), ”- "

!'b?E

India. Postage to India li

DAM-ZINE

For Sick Glands Caused From Age, Abuse, Disease, Etc.

A product of medical research prescribed by Physicians in the treatment of starved glands. You take no chances and waste no money. Satisfaction guaranteed or money refunded. We invite correspondence with Physicians. Packed 25 Dam-Zines, $1.00, 200 for $5.00. A $1.00 order now means a $5.00 order later. Special Physi- ' ns offer 1.000 Dam-Zines for $21.25. All goods it in plain sealed package postpaid. No O. D. Send cash or money order and expect m-Zines by first return mail. No delay. Write v. All correspondence confidential.


P. Oi Box 101 Columbus, Ohio


A Brotherhood of Mystics

TEACHING

Occultism, Psychology, Ancient Magic, Metaphysics and Comparative Religions.

For information address

SECRETARY GENERAL,

Box 391, Plattsbnrg, N. T.

Anyone interested in Occult Sciences and Mysteries,

send us your namo and address. Join new Mental Science League, no charge.

Mental Science League

109 N. Dearborn St. Chicago, Ill.


arrest me. Send In all 11.00.

A. Honigman, St*. E. P. O. B. 85, See. WT-X, Montreal, Can.



the death of your uncle and all but caused your own; yet here was a little, so small piece of gold which also carried the concentrated thought of centiu’ies. Adored as a caster-out-ofspells by generations of pious Christians, once regarded as efficacious against the same old goddess by whom your house was so beset, it was ideally suited to my purpose. I did fight thought with counter-thought; against the evil thought-concepts of Aset and of Sepa her priest I set the defensive thought-power of Cyril, the Alexandrian monk, who <mce cast Aset forth from out the bodies of his bewitched parishioners. The tiny relie in my hand focussed, so to speak, the thoughts which negatived the harmful power of Aset and her followers, and —Aset and her ghostly worshiper are gone. If-”

1 • I—don’t—believe—a—word—of —it,!’' Monteith interrupted slowly. “You’re saying all this to shield Louclla. She’s bad—wicked clear through, and I don’t ever want to see her again. I-”

“Mmimur!” de Grandin’s voice was sharp-edged as a razor. “Look at this!”

Once more he drew the little golden cress of Cyril from his pocket, holding it before the young man’s eyes. As young Monteith gazed wonderingly at it, the Frenchman continued in a low. earnest voice: “You will hear and obey. You will sleep for half an hour, at which time you will awake, completely forgetting all which occurred last night, remembering only that, the thing which menaced your family and household has forever departed. Seep. Bleep and forget. I command it!

“And that, my friend, is that,” he announced taattfer-of-faetly as Monteith’s eyelids lowered hi compliance with his order.

“Now what?” I asked.

“I think we would better burn the mummy of Priest Sepa and the translation of his curse-stone,” he respond-

ed. “The uncle’s will absolved his legatees from burying the mummy if it became physically impossible—I purpose rendering it so. Come, let us cremate the old one.”

Together we dismembered the desiccated corpse of the Egyptian, casting the pieces on the glowing coals of the furnace, where they burned with sharp, fierce spurts of flame and quickly turned to light, gray ashes which wafted upward through the draft of the firebox.

“What about that uncanny feeHng Louella complained of, de Grandin?” T asked as we pursued our grisly task. “You know, she said she felt as though someone were staring at her from behind?”

’‘Mats am ” he chuckled as be fed a mumified forearm to the flames. “I shall say she had good cause to feel so. Did not the excellent Maggie and her husband stare her out of countenance from the rear, always seeking to see her take a third helping of food or wine? ParbleU) Mademoiselle Louella desired the boyish figure, therefore she eats sparingly, therefore she is tried and condemned by the so excellent Irish couple on the charge of beinga fairy! C’esf dr&le, n’est-ee-pm?”

W hen we returned to the upper floor, David Monteith was up and disposing of an excellent breakfast.

“Good old Lou,” we heard him tell his sister, “of course, I wasn’t ill last night. I slept like a top—overslept, in fact; aren’t I an hour late to breakfast? ’ ’ Be smiled and patted bfc sister’s hand reassuringly.

“Ah, parbleu, Jules de Grandin, you are clever!” the little Frenchman ntarmured delightedly. “Yon have removed all danger from these yowag people and assured iheir happiness by exorcising the devil of bad memories. Yes. Come with me, Jules de Grandin; I shall take you to the library and give you a magnificent-great drink of whisky. ’ ’



The Shut Room

(Continued from page 480)

cropped, iron-gray hair, wearing a fine satin coat and what were called, in their day, “small clothes,” or tightfitting knee-trousers with silk stockings and heavy, buckled shoes, was raising and fitting about his waist, over the coat, the “harness” with the pistols.

Abruptly, the materialization appearing to be now complete, he turned upon us, with an audible snarl and baleful, glaring little eyes like a pig’s, deep set in a hideous, scarred face, and then he spoke—he spoke, and he had been dead for more than a century!

“Ah-h-h-h!” he snarled, evilly, “ye would come in upon me, eh, my fine gents—into this my chamber, eh! I ’ll teaeh ye manners...” and he ended this diatribe with a flood of the foulest language imaginable, stepping, with little, almost mincing, down-toed steps toward us all the time he poured out his filthy curses and revilings. I was completely at a loss what to do. I realized—these ideas went through my mind with the rapidity of thought —that the pistols were unloaded! I told myself that this was some weird hallucination—that the shade of no dead-and-gone desperado could harm us. Yet—it was a truly terrifying experience, be the man shade or true flesh and blood.

Then Carruth spoke to him, in quiet, persuasive tones.

“But—you have your pistols now, Simon Forrester. It was we who put them where you could find them, your pretty boys, ‘Jem and Jack.’ That was what you were trying to find, was it not! And now—you have them. There is nothing further for you to do —you have them, they are just under your hands where you can get at them whenever you wish. ’ ’

At this the specter, or materialization of Simon Forrester, blinked at

RUPTURE

Appliances Made to Measure

Want solid comfort T Wear a Brooks Appliance with patented Automatic k Air Cushion. Get more * comfort and joy out of your favorite sport. No gouging springs or hard pads, but soft, clean, washable air cushion. Aida healing because tissues are gently but firmly held. Over 3,000.000 Brooks Appliances sold. Wear one on ten days’ trial. Try it. Know real comfort. Write for 28-page Rupture Booklet FREE. Sent in plain sealed envelope.

Brooks Appliance Co., 94 State Street, Marshall, Mich.

777 FORMULA

Composed of ACTUAL GLAND MATERIALS and stimulative tonic in tablet form. Send $2 for a full strength package.

2 Packages for $3.00 — also C. O. D. SERES CO.. Dept. WT-1I 830 Arch St., Philadelphia, Pa.

,1a».lslM.hH

_ iniata the craving for tobacco tut thousands have. Make yourself free anti happy with Tobacco Redeemer. Not a substitute, not habit forming. Write for free booklet telling: of Injurious effect of tobacco anti depend*


of Old or Odd Coins. Many VERY valuable. Keep ALL old money. Get Posted. Send 10 cents for New Ill’s COIN VALUE BOOK. 4x6. Buying and Selling. Guaranteed Prices. Old GOLD and SILVER bought.

COIN EXCHANGE, Box 72, Le Roy, N. Y. SONG WRITERS; SUBSTANTIAL ADVANCE Royalties are paid on publisher’s acceptance. New booklet, "Song Requirements of Talking Pictures," sent free. Newcomer Associates, 784 Earl Building. New York. _


Over 500.000 used Superba Remedy to help stop Cigars, Cigarettes Pipe. Chewing, Snuff. Write for full treatment on trial Costs $£00 tf mooeasfal. nothing if not SUPERBA CO. H-«>. Baltimore, Md LET ME READ TOUR CHARACTER FROM your hand-writing. Samplo reading 12c. Graphologist, 2309-LZ Lawrence. Toledo. O.



ns, a framing light in his evil little eyes, and dropped his hands with which lie had hot now been gesticulating violently on the grips of the pistols. He grinned, evilly, and spat in a strange fashion, over his shoulder.

“Ay,” said he, more moderately now, “ay—I have ’em—Jemmy and Jack, my trusties, my pretty boys.” He fondled the butts with his huge bands, hands that could have strangled an ox, and spat again over his shoulder.

“There is no necessity for you to remain, then, is there?” said Carruth softly, persuasively.

The simulacrum of Simon Forrester frowned, looked a bit puzzled, then nodded its head several times.

“You ean rest now—now that you have Jem and Jack,” suggested Carmtk, almost in a whisper, and as he spoke, Forrester turned away turd stepped over to the blank wall at the far side of the room, opposite the doorway, and I could hear Carruth draw in his breath softly and feel the iron grip of his fingers on my arm. “Watch!” he whispered in my ear; “watch now.”

The solid wall seemed to wave and buckle before Forrester, almost as though it were not. a wall but a sheet of white cloth, held and waved by hands as cloth is waved in a theater to simulate waves. More and more cloth-like the wall became, and, as we gazed at this strange sight, the simulacrum of Simon Forrester seemed to become less opaque, to melt and blend in with the wavering wall, which gradually ceased to move, and then he was gone and the wall was as it had been before....

O n aiONDAY morning, at Carruth’s urgent solicitation, Snow assembled a force of laborers, and we watched while they broke down the wall of “the shut room” opposite the doorway. At last, as Carruth Ixad expected, a pick went through, and, the interested workmen, laboring with a

will, broke through into a small, narrow., cell-like room the plaster of which indicated that it had been wafted up perhaps two centuries before, or even earlier—a “priest’s hole” in alt probability, of the early post-refoiwation period near the end of the Sferteenth Century.

Carruth stopped the work as Soon as it was plain what was hero, and turned out the workmen, who went protestingly. Then, with only <n*r host working beside us, and the door of the room locked on the inside, we eontinned the job. At last the aperture was large enough, and Carnrth went through. We heard an exclamation from Mm, and then he began to hand out articles through the rough tele in the masonry—leather articles—boots innumerable, ladies ’ reticules, handluggage, tire missing jeweler’s sample ease with its contents intact—innumerable other articles, and, last of all, the “harness” with the pistols in the holsters.

Ca rruth explained the ‘ * jester ease ’ ’ to Snow, who shook his head ova* it. “It’s quite beyond me, Lord Carruth,” said he, “but, as you say this annoyance is at an end, I am quite satisfied; and—I’ll take yonr advice and make sure by pulling down the whole room, breaking out the corridor walls, and joining it to the room across the way. I confess I ean not make head or tail of your explanation —the unfulfilled wish, the ‘sympathetic pervasion ’ of the room as you call it, the ‘materialization,’ and the strange fact that this business began only a short time ago. But—I’ll do exactly what you have recommended, about the room, that is. The restoration of the jeweler’s case will undoubtedly make it possible for me to get back the sum I paid Messrs. Hopkins and Barth of Liverpool when it disappeared in my house. Can you give any explanation tff why the ‘shade’ of Forrester remained quiet for a century and more and only started up the other day, so to speak? ”



“It is because the power ta materialize came very slowly,” answered C&rrath, “coupled as it undoubtedly was with the gradual breaking down of the room’s material resistance. It is very difficult to realize the extraordinary force of an unfulfilled wish, on the part of a foacpfal, brutal, wholly selfeh personality like Forrester’s. It is, really, what wo must call spiritual power, even though the ‘spirituality’ was the reverse of what we oonunouly understand by that term. The wish and the force of Forrester's persistent, desire, through the century, have been working steadily, and, as you have told us, the room has been out of use for more than a century. There were no common, everyday affetrs to Counteract that malign influence—no ‘interruptions,’ if I make myself clear.”

“Thank you,” seid Mr. Snow. “I do not clearly understand. These matters arc outside wy province. But— I am exceedingly grateful—to you both.” Our host bowed courteously. “Anything that I can. possibly do, in return——”

“There is nothin#—nothing whatever,” said Casttvtth quietly; “but, Mr. Snow, there Is another problem on your hands which perhaps you will have some difficulty in solving-, and concerning which, to our regret”—he looked gravely at me—‘ ‘ I fear neither Mr. Canevin with his experience, nor I with mine, will be able to assist you.”

“And what, pray, is that?” asked Mr. Snow, turning lightly pale. He would, I perceive, be very well satisfied to have his problems behind him.

“The problem is,” said Carruth, even more gravely I imagined, “it is —what disposal are you to make of fifty-eight pairs of assorted boots and shoes!”

And Snow’s relieved laughter was the last of the impressions which I took with mo as we rode back to London in Carruth’s ear, of “The Coach and Horses” inn on the Brighton

[THE END]

============================================================
by Quinn about the cat-people was by far the best he has done and
============================================================
Road.


The


By SEABURY QUINN

K it Norton came home one day and found the wife of his best friend was there with a baby—Ais baby; and to his horror he learned that his own wife had divorced him two years before, that he had married tins other woman and treated his first wife so shamefully that his name was a byword throughout the city. Time had stood still for two years both for him and the other woman, and neither of them remembered a «olitary happening of those two years of scandal and disgrace.

H ow this weird situation came about furnishes a fascinating problem, fully worthy of the occult powers and keen mind of Jules de Gran din, the. quick-tempered and brilliant occultist and ghost-breaker. This adventure of the mercurial little Frenchman will be published complete in the

May issue of


On Sale April 1

Clip and Mail this coupon todayl

VTI5TKD TALUS 840 N. ABuliifiran Ave., Chicago. III.

Bnclosed find $1 for special 5 months subscription to “Weird Tales” to begin t — the May issue ($1.25 in Canada). Spe offer void unless remittance is accompanied by coupon.

Address. City_

SNewMoistut'e Humidifier &. Caifccm Eliminator

- for all Makes of Cars, Trucks, Tractors and Engines

An amazing Scientific Humidifier has been patented throughout the World that beats any ever got out. It makes engines run ALL THE TIME with the same wonderful efficiency they do on a cool moist night. It gives MORE pep and power, HIGHER top speed, eliminates hard carbon, and gives AMAZING mileage. Fords report 28 to 42 miles per gallon. Other makre (both American and Foreign) report marvelous increases of 14. to double mileage. Some of

_ Try Hus wonderful VIX Moisture Humidifier and Carbon Eliminator AT MY RISK o OWN CAR to prove that VAPOR MOISTURE (drawn from Radiator to Engine) gives wonderful night driving effect ALL THE TIME with MORE mileage from gas and oil—e hard carbon accumulation—gives MORE power, a SNAPPIER, PEPPIER motor, 1 acceleration, a SMOOTHER, QUIETER running engine and HIGHER top speed.

VIX will PROVE ITS MONEY SAVING MERIT on your own car by 8 DEMONSTR. •—conducted by yourself AT MY RISK—the most SENSATIONAL, most ASTOUi ____________ most CONVINCING DEMONSTRATIONS you ever saw.

don’t find from your tests that it does MORE than I claim; retui -fff it COSTS YOU NOTHING. I want wide-awake hustling, l

Free Trial

::i?8 JS388SSR8 &:.:S« &S?, n - d::::

::i2* Ns

Man with Ca

Spare or Full Tit

$350 to $1600 a mom

an’oth.r! '£,<? bo—IS being made Httlac Motor* With One man told 8 nut mol Another oollo all 3 men Install

Another** srofltl a* hlg $100.00 a day.

VIX MfrltMU fey S SZjLKTLIHC

ASTOCNDINO. DEMON3TBAT SucmmIuI VlXmen make MOBE Mi

TRY This New Princ Gas Saver AT MY R

Pictures here and at top show Model f‘B” VIX attached

to my own New Model A Ford. This car is wonderfully improved in performance with the VIX Moisture Humidifier. So is every Auto, Truck, Tractor, Taxi, Bus,M—*— -!


SAVE) sS'sSffi?

or Costs You Nothing

^"MailNoj

WALTER CRITCHLOW, INVENTOR and MANUFACTU1 344-A;. Street. Wheaton, til., U

Please send me without obligation or ^our FREKTKIAL and MONEY M.

Name..

Address.

Town.State...

; > ‘

. |S

t

O N A sleeping-mat, native style, lay General Jui-yin, at the far side of the room.

O’Neill closed the door silently, and crossed the floor. Except for the cloisonne dragon, the room was quite bare, without luxury. He dropped the rattan on a table, and plucked out his pistol.

At this instant, the sleeping man opened his eyes.

"Lung! How dare you-”

O’Neill jerked with the pistol. An expression of the utmost astonishment leaped into the massive, powerful features of Jui-yin as he saw that this man was not Lung after all.

"Quiet,” said O’Neill. "No, I am not Lung. Lung is dead, and you will follow him if you don’t lie still. Put your hands outside the covers—quick! That’s right.”

Reaching up with his free hand, he worked loose the false mustache, and threw off the cap with its dragon insignia. Recognition dawned in the eyes of Jui-yin; recognition, and a flame of gathering fury.

"You!”

"Exactly,” said O’Neill. "And now I have you.just where I want you, my dear general.” The brutal features before him became suffused with blood, then paled again.

"How did you get here?” snapped the general.

"By virtue of my dragon blood. You did not know that I was a descendant of dragons?” O’Neill lifted one eyebrow, regarded him whimsically. "But you saw me arrive in a green dragon. You should have taken warning. And that airplane is not a present for you at all. It is very far from being yours, just as you are very far from marrying the daughter of Doctor Sanson.”

He beamed cheerfully on the yellow man, who was now thoroughly roused.

The face of Jui-yin was a study in fleeting expressions. Fury, chagrin, astonishment, succeeded one another; his lurid eyes narrowed, watching O’Neill like the eyes of an intent tiger. His lip curled in a sneer....

This smashing Chinese mystery story will hold you spellbound by its quick changes and the blood-freezing adventures of an American soldier of fortune and a lovely French girl in the power of the Chinese bandit general, Jui-yin.

The Master of Dragons

By H. BEDFORD-JONES

THE DRAGOMAN’S PILGRIMAGE

a tale of the slave mart of Mecca By Otis Adelbert Kline STEP SOFTLY, SAHIB!

A Far East detective story By Hugh B. Cave FACE PIDGIN the story of a Chinese swindle By James W. Bennett


romance and adventure in Borneo By Warren Hastings Miller ISMEDDIN AND THE HOLY CARPET an adventure story of Kurdistan By E. Hoffmann Price THE MAID OF MIR AMMON a tangle of love and destiny in India By Grace Keon

—ALSO—

WHAT BECAME OF ALADDIN’S LAMP

a new Arabian Nights story By Allan Govan

Now On Sale ^ 15c

A Phantom from the Ether

Threatens the Lives of all Mankind

T he first warning of the stupendous cataclysm that befell the earth in the fourth decade of the Twentieth Century was recorded simultaneously in several parts of America. At twelve minutes ■ past 3 o’clock a. m., during a lull in the night’s aerial business, several of the larger stations of the Western hemisphere began picking up strange signals out of the ether. They were faint and ghostly, as if coming from a vast distance. As far as anyone could learn, the signals originated nowhere upon the earth. It was as if some phantom were whispering through the ether in the language of another planet.


T he inside story of a tremendous threat engineered by a phantom from the ether—a threat to gain control of the world —is thrillingly told in "The Moon Terror,” the most enthralling fantastic mystery of the age. The gigantic powers and clever plans behind this super-dream will hold you spellbound.

Here Is How You Can Get This Amazing -Book FREE For a limited time only, we offer this book to you without cost, with each subscription to WEIRD TALES for six months. Simply send $1.50, the regular six months’ subscription price for WEIRD TALES, and this book is yours without further

cost. You receive the magazine for six months and this book is sent to you free of charge.

Limited Supply

This offer may be withdrawn at any time, so we advise you to order now. Remember, the supply of books is limited. Send today!


840 N. Michigan Ave., Dept. S-25, Chicago, III.

[THE END]
