============================================================
Weird Tales
Volume 25, Number 1
Date: January 1935
============================================================
============================================================
TABLE OF CONTENTS

  1. "The Shattered Timbrel .........." by Wallace J. Knapp
  2. "Wharf Watchman ." by Edgar Daniel Kramer
============================================================
============================================================
THE SHATTERED TIMBREL ..........
by Wallace J. Knapp
============================================================
rest of the meat. . . .

It was the head of my brother.

Uhe

hattered Timbrel

By WALLACE J. KNAPP

A strange tale of a weird surgical operation and its ghastly results

O VER all these ponderous volumes on the desk before me I have pored. Krestenivnikov’s Conditioned Reflexes of the Parietal Lobe, Ebbingbaum’s reprints from Neurologie Centralblatt, even the rare Derangements cerebro-spinales I have read over and over, seeking a clue. Hopeless. All hopeless. I, whom Schmerzholt, the world’s greatest physio-biologist, called the most promising assistant he ever had, face a blank wall.

How I remember our excitement the first few times we performed the modern miracle. Even Schmerzholt’s funny little beard danced up and down and his eyes behind their powerful lenses glinted, as the monkey that had actually been dead for two weeks raised its paw to claw at the life-restoring stream pouring into its arteries. If we had been publicity-seekers, the successful culmination of my chief’s lifetime of experimenting would have put us on the front page of newspapers all over the world; but for some reason the little German held back. "Nein, Wally, ve are not ready yet.” But Nancy Follett, when I told her about it that night, could not understand the delay.

"Why, darling, bringing the dead back to life! It’s wonderful. When people learn about it, someone will be sure to offer you a salary big enough so that we can get married.”

"We’ll be married without waiting for that, sweetheart,” I told her. "and in less

than two months. Schmerzholt told me that after he gets back from the Experimental Biologists’ Conference in Berlin, he’ll give me a month’s vacation.”

"Marvelous! Let’s drive somewhere and do something.”

I begged off. The breakneck speed at which she drives that blue roadster of hers is breath-taking for a staid scientist like me. Besides, I wanted to stay there and plan what we’d do for the next two months.

Before Schmerzholt sailed, however, he outlined enough research to keep me busy for a year, not including the time necessary to look after our resurrected monkeys, a job that demanded almost the entire attention of one person; but Jim Briggs, Doctor Briggs with a string of letters after his name, even if he is younger than I, told him not to worry.

Still, my duties did cut into the time I had hoped to spend with Nancy. When you are trying to grow a cutaneous tissue synthetically, and need to add a drop of some solution or other every half-hour for ten days, there’s little chance of covering much country, even with a speed demon like Nancy for a driver. She’s unhappy unless she’s hitting fifty miles or better; but that, I suppose, is what I should expect from the red-headed elf who was so soon to marry me.

We scientists are agnostics about telepathy, waiting the results of further investigation. But I know how uneasy I felt around the laboratory that afternoon.

THE SHATTERED TIMBREL


Nothing went right. One of the monkeys ended the state of coma in which it had existed ever since before Schmerzholt’s departure, by dying. The howling of the dogs we use for experimental purposes got more on my nerves than usual. And the shrill telephone ring so startled me that I dropped the pan of analine I was carrying across the operating-room.

Briggs was nearest the phone, but he just stood there looking at me and at the spreading red pool on the spotless tile.

I reached the phone first. The voice was breathless and choked as it asked for Doctor Knapp. I licked my dry lips and answered.

"Oh, Doctor, there’s been an accident, a terrible accident. Miss Follett is ”

"Dead?” I rasped. "Where? When?”

\\ 7e beat the ambulance to the scene ▼ T of the auto wreck. Nancy’s blue car still remained rammed against a tree, but the farmer in the neighboring house and the two occupants of the truck that had been hugging the wrong side of the turn had pulled her out of the wreck and laid her on a blanket.

It seemed impossible to believe she was dead, but though she had not a cut or a visible bruise, her heart had stopped beating. I was bent over her when the ambulance clanged up. I pushed back the doctor. No hands but mine should touch her. If anything remained to be done for her — that gave me the idea. My choking cry brought Briggs to his knees beside me.

"What is it, Wally?” he demanded.

"We’ve got to get her to the laboratory.”

At first the ambulance driver refused. It was his duty to take her to the hospital, but I insisted. Afterward he testified in court that I threatened to kill him. I don’t know, but it ended with his driving and with me in the rear, my arms about Nancy and my voice screaming for more speed.

By myself I took her to our operatingroom, immaculate except for the angry red spot on the tile, like a little lake of blood.

Briggs, arriving afterward, said he pounded for ten minutes on the locked door before he made me hear and let him in. Then he gasped. On the operatingtable, covered by a surgical sheet, lay the dead body of the girl I had expected to marry.

"What are you going to do, Wally?” he cried.

'We’ve brought animals back to life,” I told him. "I’m going to revive Nancy.”

"You’re out of your head.”

"Maybe, but science saved monkeys. Science is going to save my sweetheart or I’m through with it for ever. And you’re going to help me.”

I caught him as he was sidling out of the room. Vainly he protested. I demanded his help. Mine would be the responsibility, but alone I could not do what I planned. Finally he sterilized me and buttoned me into my operating-gown, though still protesting.

"But look here,” I thundered. "Every doctor in the land would pronounce her dead, wouldn’t they?”

He tried Nancy’s pupillary reflex.

"She’s dead,” he admitted.

"And unless we do something, she’ll remain dead. So if we can do anything at all for her, she’ll be better off than now.”

As we rigged up the teeter board, I could see that though he said nothing, he was set against what I proposed to do, but I went ahead. I bound the girl I loved to a sort of seesaw; then, biting my lips, I made my incisions. As I had watched Schmerzholt, so now I pumped in the



epinephrin reagent to stimulate her heart action, the hepatin for its effect on her liver, the leucholchyle for nervous system tone, all in a blood and saline solution from which the coagulating matter had been filtered. And from time to time I glanced up at Briggs, whose eyes, all I could see above his mask, remained fixed on the pulmonamic machine with which he was trying to start her breathing. With his gloved right hand he gently teetered the board back and forth, eight times a minute.

Outside it grew dark. Inside the operating-room, dripping in the air heated to lessen shock, we watched, blinking in the glare of overhead lights. I was dimly conscious of people knocking at the door, but we did not open it. When the telephone bell annoyed me, I hurled a pair of haemostats at it and sent the apparatus crashing to silence on the tile. And still we watched, feeding the life-giving fluids into the body and waiting for them to take effect

Yes, waiting, because, somehow, I had no thought of failure. The reason Schmerzholt went to the added expense of buying monkeys for his experiments was because their reactions parallel human reactions. If they had been restored after two weeks of death, Nancy must come back to me.

Briggs called my attention to the blood on my gown, dripping from the lip I had been worrying with my teeth as I worked. But I did not stop to change. Just then, I thought I saw a slight movement of her mouth, but when it was not repeated, I called it a product of my tensed imagination.

It was Briggs who first detected the trembling of Nancy’s eyelids. That gave new vigor to our exhausted bodies and we kept on until finally she gave a little moan

and slightly moved the hand that wore the engagement ring I had given her.

And then Briggs slumped to the floor.

I could not stop to help him. Even though Nancy had begun to breathe again, slowly, I could not leave her, even for an instant. Not until the black of the windows turned to gray and I knew she was safe did I open the laboratory door. Outside, Mrs. Follett, dry-eyed and gray, sat folding and refolding her handkerchief. I gave her instructions and stumbled to a cot in our smoking-room. I slumped onto it.

When I awoke, I discovered they had moved her to the hospital, since our laboratory had no facilities to care for her. Quickly I drove over, still haggard. The doctor began questioning me, but all I said was that I had given her a blood transfusion to replace what she had lost in the accident. For a moment he looked at me queerly.

"She’s still unconscious,” was his answer to my question. "From the shock, of course.”

The next day I was given the same report. She was, however, as I saw her, resting easier, breathing quicker and with a better color. But it was four days before she opened her eyes, and then those hazel eyes that used to sparkle at me were glazed. When I saw she did not recognize me yet, I soon left.

Mornings and evenings I made my pilgrimage to Nancy’s bedside, but when a week passed and still she had not spoken or recognized anyone, the family began to worry. Hour after hour the girl lay unmoving, her lusterless eyes fixed vacantly on the ceiling, saying nothing, apparently hearing nothing. Finally they decided to call in a specialist. I tried to have them put it off until Schmerzholt’s arrival, for we were expecting him in ten days, but they were frantic.

THE SHATTERED TIMBREL


T hey made a good choice. I don’t suppose there is a neuropathologist of greater skill than Doctor Parker in the Midwest. He made a thorough examination, but I could see how puzzled he was, and while he talked in hopeful generalities to Mr. and Mrs. Follett, to me he acknowledged that he was at sea.

"It locks like pressure on the brain somewhere, but although I’ve used this new X-ray technique, there isn’t the slightest evidence of lesion. Even an injury to the spinal column would partly account for her condition, if we could find any. You found no trace immediately after the accident?”

I assured him that I had no explanation. I still do not know what — except shock — could have stopped her heartbeats without leaving a wound. And so, after promises to keep her under observation, Doctor Parker left and I waited for Schmerzholt.

Finally he arrived, tanned and vivacious, but he sobered instantly when he saw me, and by the time I had told him the whole story, he was so furious that he choked. I had thought that when a scientist like Schmerzholt had devoted a quarter-century to the problem of methods of restoring human life, the acme of delight would be the report of its successful use, but instead he became more enraged than I have ever seen him. He bombarded me with German oaths.

"You fool!” he ended. "Aber tell me instantly, how is she?”

"Getting better all the time. She is still

dazed, but Doctor Parker thinks ”

"Dazed?” snapped Schmerzholt. "Dazed? Have you from the observation of our monkeys learned nothing, blockhead? Don’t you know what to that lovely girl you have done?”

I tried to stammer a question.

"Don’t you know,” he shrieked, "that

the instant blood stops flowing through the brain a chemical change takes place? You revive her body, perhaps, but her brain, what of her brain? Dead! Dead!”

Briggs tried to divert his anger by quoting what I had said to him.

'"We thought anything at all that we could do for her would be better than to leave her dead.”

The little German whirled on him.

"So? Eh, so you made her — what do they call those Haitian imbeciles? — a zombie? And he — he loves her, so he wants her to live an idiot? A lifetime of torture for everyone? And perhaps you will think you must marry her, dummkopf. Look what happens when I go away. If I had been here, I would have broken all the instruments, and chloroformed you, first. If it had not been impossible, do you think I would not have experimented with people? Well, now where are you going?”

After all, what could I say to him? I went out slowly, stopped at the storeroom, and then on to the hospital. There I saw the girl I loved better than anything in the world, as beautiful as ever, but with the dull eyes of an idiot. To my kisses on her fiery hair, her lips, her fingers, she made no response. Then from my pocket I drew a tiny bottle and emptied its few flakes of powder into a glass. In my arms I clasped her as I held it to her lips. The nurse, coming in, found me kissing a corpse.

They kept the name of the poison I used out of the papers, for, after all, if people knew how painlessly death may be summoned, more of them might seek it. But everything else made front page headlines.

T he story I told at my trial was so fantastic that none of the jury believed it. When Briggs testified that Nancy had



been dead in the first place, they thought his words an attempt to shield a friend. From the beginning, I knew there could be only one possible sentence.

But now, as I wait for the death guard, I have only one ambition. Somewhere in one of these ponderous volumes on the desk before me may hide the secret of a

way to awaken the brain as it is possible to start heart and lungs functioning. My time on earth is short now, but if I keep looking . . .

What? They are waiting for me in the

[THE END]

============================================================
WHARF WATCHMAN .
by Edgar Daniel Kramer
============================================================
death chamber? Then I must go. Nancy, you understand. You’ll be waiting for me. Nancy! Nancy! '

/f^harf

W atchman

By EDGAR DANIEL KRAMER

When the harbor lights are winkin’ Through the dusk that hides the day, Though ’tis little folks are thinkin’

That I’m wanderin’ away,

Lord, I’m laughin’, while I’m roamin’ From the shadow-haunted quays,

An’ the stars, white in the gloamin’, Lead me out across the seas.

As upon my rounds I’m goin’

With a lantern in my hand,

There is no one to be knowin’,

An’ folks wouldn’t understand.

If I told them I was sailin’

To be walkin’ the bazars,

Where the temple bells are wailin’

To the pale moon an’ the stars.

When the harbor bells are cryin’

Through the smother of the mist,

That comes when day is dyin’,

I am keepin’ an old tryst,

Where the gulls an’ winds are screamin’. Where the salt spray stings my lips, An’, contrary to all seemin’,

Lord, I’m followin’ the ships.

in Twenty Minutes

By CHARLES HENRY MACKINTOSH

Doctor Graeme little thought how his death’s-head spider plot would redound on his own head — a story about an Egyptian mummy

T HIS is exciting . . . waiting here in my darkened study, with only the reading-lamp lighted on my desk, to hear the shrill, harsh cries of the newsboys calling the Extra! He will rate an Extra, surely: the good, the great, the learned Doctor Barrion. That is the measure of fame in our America— to rate an Extra — and Doctor Barrion is — or may I say, already, was? — famous. A bit too famous, perhaps, for his own health. "We are sorry, Doctor Graeme, but the committee appointed to choose a curator has decided in favor of Doctor Barrion, because of his wide fame as the author of the Amen monographs.” He-he-he! Amen monographs! I shall be the one, Doctor Barrion, to write the last of your Amen monographs ... an end to your growing fame, an end to your career, and to your interference with mine. Amen . . . so let it be!

I wonder whether he is now unwrapping the bitumen bandages from that fine female mummy I so freely contributed to his new curatorship. Always with his own hands, eh? — because of the scarabs and other amulets often wound in with the bandages ... so tempting to curiohunters and so easy to abstract! He-hehe! There is one amulet wound in with that mummy’s bandages you would have done well to allow some curio-hunter to abstract, Doctor Barrion . . . but it is too late to think of that now, isn’t it? One does not lightly change the habits of a lifetime.

It is costing me something, too. My

mummy — not a very good mummy, but a genuine one — and one of my two death’shead spiders from Hawaii. It was clever of me to think of my death’s-head spider in this connection. It is no larger than a scarab. Strange that so tiny a creature can distill death in twenty minutes! They say it is the only poisonous thing in that Paradise of the Pacific, and very rare even there, found only in the deep woods, where my two specimens were found. Now I have only one.

I may need it for that young snip, Skipsworth, who took so great secret satisfaction in condoling with me upon the committee’s decision. That sneer on his face! Damn him and all of them! "And besides, they thought Doctor Barrion had the kindlier, stronger character.” — A deliberate insult! Kindlier, maybe — none but weaklings are "kind” — but stronger! Well, we shall soon learn who has proved the stronger. I am as strong as Death, Doctor Barrion; strong as Death, and not kind. You will not like your death . . . but then I did not like your life, and I am stronger than you, Doctor Barrion. Hehe-he!

Why don’t they hurry with that Extra? Surely they won’t hold so rare a piece of news for the morning editions. I can’t bear to sit here waiting, waiting, till morning — yet I shall if I must. I have waited so many years already . . . surely I can wait through one more night. I v/onder what they will make of it, those newspapermen. Of course they will bring in the old idea of a priestly curse upon




tomb-robbers. How mad it always made dear Doctor Barrion to be classed with tomb-robbers! But they will bring that up, of course, for the titillation of their readers’ superstitions.

Strange that so practical a people as ours should be so superstitious. We whose duty it is to deal with the long dead, to "rifle” their tombs and to "desecrate” their bodies ... tv e are not superstitious. We couldn’t afford such a luxury as superstition in our business, could we, Doctor Barrion? We are not superstitious. We are scientists, you and I, cold, rational scientists. He-he-he!

But perhaps even Doctor Barrion will recant during those last twenty minutes! He may rave and sob. He may shriek prayers and promises to the priests of Amen. I wish I could be there to hear. . . . But it is better to wait quietly in my darkened study with my servants below to swear that I have not been out since dinner, if any swearing should be necessary. It won’t be. I have planned so surely and so well. No one can connect me with the poor, dear doctor’s mysterious death. It will be the curse of Amen-Ra upon a grave-robber! A fine end for you, my dear, famous, imperious colleague!

W as that a cry from the end of the street? "Wuxtry!” Yes, yes! they are calling the Extra! Oh, come closer, cry! Come closer quickly! Let me hear it clearly, the glad tidings of — what was that? A knock on my study door? But I left the strictest orders I was on no account to be disturbed!

"Is that you, Williams?”

No answer. Strange . . . and annoying that my orders should be disregarded. Yet, on second thought, it may be an additional security, that my voice shall be heard from my locked study. He-he-he! Not bad, that! "Doctor Graeme was in his study with the door locked all evening! I heard his voice ...” so the good Williams, on the witness stand.

But I am mad to think so! There will be no occasion for any witnesses. No trial. No witnesses. "Death by misadventure.” A nice funeral ... to which I shall go in my Easter Sunday outfit, after sending an appropriate wreath. More expense . . . but it must all be regarded as an investment. The committee can have no other choice than Doctor Graeme this time. What’s that?

I swear, this waiting has given me the jitters! I thought I heard someone in the room with me . . . but the door is locked; yes, it is locked, I say, and no one can get in. Fool! I must get myself a little drink. Here . . . here’s to you, Doctor Barrion, wherever, whatever, you are now! Salve atque vale!

Good God! How did you get in? The door is locked, locked, I tell you. I . . . you . . . what is it you want. Doctor Barrion? What is that strange phosphorescence about you? Is this some schoolboy trick? What! You came to bring me back my death’ s-head spider? What’s that in your hand? The spider? Impossible . . . it’s death to the touch! But maybe it is dead. Maybe the bitumenbandages smothered it. I was afraid of that . . . but what am I saying? I know nothing of any death’s-head spider! God! It isn’t dead! I saw it move!

Be careful man, for God’s sake! There’s death in your hand! No . . . no . . . keep it away from me! It’s death, I tell you . . . horrible, agonizing death . . . death in twenty minutes. . . .

Vhe

G/upreme Witch*

By G. APPLEBY TERRILL

T HE logs that had just been laid on the fire were wet, and as the powerful yellow flames wrapped them round, long, hissing spurts of steam broke the silence.

At the table with its wine-bottles, glasses and candles four men sat — Jacobite conspirators; for they were met in the interests of the Stuart king in exile, James the Third — the Pretender, the Government styled him. The four were: the parson, the messenger from King James, Mr. Gartshore the scrivener, and "Old Jem” Lambardiston, the lord of the manor.

Mr. Gartshore was pondering a question of finance, for an answer to which the others waited. Eventually he spoke: "Not much above five thousand pounds. Tell his Majesty five thousand guineas.”

The messenger made a note; and this concluded the business of the evening. The parson's inclination now was to go. He was ill at ease sitting in Old Jem’s house. Nothing short of the Stuart agent's presence in it would have enticed him over the threshold; for not only had

•From WEIRD TAL.ES for October, 1826.

he and Old Jem quarreled hotly in the very first hour of their acquaintance, some eighteen months before, rarely speaking since, but Old Jem was reputed to have been a thoroughly bad man all his days, and, in his eighty-seventh year, to be ever ready to gibe at good, to talk with satisfaction of his own misdeeds, and to approve those of others. The only spark in his soul which was not a gleam of evil (it was commonly said) was a sincere wish that James III could be placed on the throne of his fathers.

So far, tonight, the affairs of the exile had fully occupied Old Jem. But, with the deliberations finished, it was not improbable that his tongue would turn in malice to themes and assertions which would sharply wound the parson. At least, thus the parson reasoned; and his ears were alert for an attack as he hesitated betwixt remaining and showing discourtesy to the company by taking his leave.

However, Old Jem tended to be silent. Sunken a little in his chair, he watched the messenger fold his papers. Anon he motioned him to fill his glass; and, draining his own, he blinked, and closed his eyes, breathing thickly.




The parson, though becoming drawn into converse with Mr. Gartshore, looked at his host. Strive as he would, he could feel no touch of that pity which the old so often stir in one; he could feel only detestation for the aged face in repose. Partly encircled by a tumbled, very white peruke, and now colored high by wine, it was, for all its deep lines, fleshy still. The under lip, tinged with purple, hung loose, the mouth seeming to leer lazily; yet, because of the great puckers about it, it was no weak mouth, but ruthless, browbeating.

"There is a lad in Parliament,” said the messenger, buttoning his waistcoat over his papers, “a Mr. Faunce, that spoke cleverly on the witchcraft statutes. We should gain him to our side.”

"I have seen to it,” said the scrivener. He drank, and put down his glass slowly. "Witchcraft!” he exclaimed, a thrill of anger in his voice. "That is some credit to this year 1736, it hath witnessed the snuffing out of the witchcraft laws — and therefore of witchcraft. For the law, and the law only, made witchcraft. ... To think that in our day — twenty-five, twenty years back- — the law of England was murdering women and little girls for witchcraft! . . . Mr. Parson, sir, I grant you there was witchcraft in Israel. But, declare to me, was there ever such in England?”

"Nay, there was not,” answered the parson emphatically.

Old Jem’s eyes opened. Faded and watery, they nevertheless bent on the parson a strong, unwavering gaze, and the limp under lip stiffened truculently.

"Take back your nay, parson,” he said, "for I have been in witchraft. Ay, I have been in it — head and shoulders in as great a piece of witchcraft as witch ever did — and the place of it no farther off than our town down yonder.”

Over his face a shadow came — the kind of shadow that the parson would least have expected to find there. It hinted that once Old Jem had met with something which had appalled even his iron mind.

"In our town?” said the parson. "I have not heard

"Certes you have not. ’Twas away back in King Charles’ time — nigh to three-score years ago. They who were in it with me are long since dead, and ’twas a thing we had no wish to talk of, and hoped we should forget.” Old Jem shook his head, with his lips pursed and his eyes cloudy. "I have forgot no scrap, no jot.”

"V oila, then, Mr. Lambardiston,” said the messenger, "give us the story.”

"No,” said Old Jem, taking up his snuff-box. "I would not have spoke this much, but the wiping out of the witch laws by these perky fellows who are too wise to believe in magic hath left me in a fume. And when Gartshore there, and Parson ”

He stopped, surveying the scrivener and parson in turn. "So ye deem it an empty tale, Gartshore, and you too, Parson?” For a few seconds his lips pressed together tightly, his face ever setting harder, decision growing in his eyes, which smoldered with exasperation. "Very well!” he cried; "ye shall have the tale; and if ye will go to the jail tomorrow ye shall find some records that will savor of its truth.” He raised himself and leaned forward with his arms on the table.

The messenger breathed "Good!” Mr. Gartshore muttered something apologetic, and the parson’s interest vanquished his inclination to go.

"Now listen,” said Old Jem.

His voice was wonderfully powerful for his years; and he gave his narrative with an orderliness and ease that were to

THE SUPREME WITCH

125 ,

be anticipated from one who in the past had been reckoned one of the finest Tory orators in the House of Commons.

“*■ | <0 begin with,” he said, "I must go

JL back to the year ’67 — 1667, when I was a lad of seventeen. Witchcraft trials were frequent enough thenadays, as you do know; and at the autumn assize here we had the case of a woman who lived in this very town. Her name was Shafto — Ellen Shafto. She was a widow whose man had been killed in the great Four Days Fight with the Hollander fleet. She had two young children, a boy and a girl, and was of no ripe age herself, say, twenty-eight. And a pretty woman she was, dark-haired, slim, and smiling, with a sweet curve to the jaw and a taking poise of the head — as I had begun to note. But, despite her prettiness and her poverty, she was known as a very honest woman. Having been, ere she came hither, needle-maid to some modish madam, she kept herself and her children by sewing for the gentlefolk roundabout here.

"Now there was another woman — I forget how called — who was her neighbor and did work of a like kind; and betwixt her and Mrs. Shafto jealousy and quarreling arose.

"After a while it chanced that this woman’s right hand and arm became swelled, so that she was sorely pained and could not sew. Old Doctor Peters, the leech, could in no wise get rid of the swelling and was puzzled to discover a cause for it.

"A bruit spread that Mrs. Shafto had bewitched the arm, accomplishing this by standing at her window with a silk kirtle across her own arm and her eyes held on the other woman’s house. At her trial, under threat of torture, Mrs. Shafto

pleaded guilty and was sentenced to be hanged.

"Now mark this well. She was to be hanged in the market-place, opposite the Red Bull inn. On the morning a great and savage crowd was gathered there, groaning and yelling and bent to seize her ere she reached the gallows-tree and to give her a rougher death than by the rope. For witchcraft is a crime that oft will drive a populace to a frenzy.

"I was looking on from the Red Bull, ill enough pleased by the scene — being young, and the witch so comely; and close on nine o’clock, the hour for the hanging, everything appeared the horrider to me because of the strange quality of the daylight. It was November — for the assize had come late. The sun was but little risen, and shone weakly through a gap it had melted in the thick murk which floated over us. The market-place was partly shadows and partly a blotch of queer, heavy, yellow light, wherein the faces of those who tiptoed to see if Mrs. Shafto were near — faces with teeth showing and eyes wide open — had the look of waxen masks.

"Of a sudden the bell in the clockhouse commenced to ring nine. The multitude was stricken silent on the instant. All were bewildered because Mrs. Shafto was not come. But presently we caught the sound of a huge, angry cry from near the jail. And soon it was known that the sheriff, aware of what the mob intended, had called Ralph Timmins, the hangman, to him and bidden him hang Mrs. Shafto privily, which he did forthwith in her cell, putting the rope over a beam.

"My father, who was in the jail with the sheriff, told me afterwards that neither the sheriff nor he went to see the execution done. They stood with divers others in the passage by the main door, it being



well-nigh dark save where a flood of the dull, yellow light fell, this coming to them through the window of a room whereof the door, opening upon the passage, was swung wide back.

"And anon, my father said, Ralph Timmins walked down the stone stairs to them, and was near to falling at the last step on account of the gloom; and saluting the sheriff, he quoth: 'Sir, I have put the young witch away, as your worship bid.’ ”

Old Jem stopped to pour some wine. Presently the scrivener asked:

"And the woman’s arm?”

"Mended from that day,” said Old Jem. "Oh, Ellen Shafto was a witch, doubt it not; and maybe her power was far vaster than she showed. But she is not the witch of my tale — the supreme witch that was more potent than a score of Ellens.

"Now harken again:

"It was, I said, in '67 that Ellen Shafto was hanged. For the next twelve years I came but little to these parts, but, my father dying in ’79, I removed hither from London.

"In a short while I learned that Ellen Shafto’s children, the lad now aged twenty-one and the girl eighteen, still dwelt near the town; and one day I met this girl in the street. I knew her as soon as I saw her, for she woke my recollection of her mother. She was younger, fresher, even slighter, but she had the same dark curls, the same sweet curve of the jaw, the same alluring poise of the head. Only in the expression of her face did she differ much. The mother was wont to be smiling, the daughter’s lips pouted (though in a pretty fashion), and her eyebrows, with the line of a little frown between them, warned one of a temper.

"I stopped her, asking her name —

which she told me was Nora — and inquiring how she and her brother lived.

"Shyly, but giving me no further curtsy than that with which she had halted, she said that her brother had received a gift of money from the lady in London in whose service their mother had been. With this money he had leased a trifle of land, which he farmed, and she dwelt with him.

"I spoke with her for several minutes, and had meant to drop a couple of guineas into her palm; but I noted a stormy sparkle in her eyes when the coins clinked in my pocket, so I let them fall back; and I lifted not my fingers to her chin as I turned away — from memory of that stormy sparkle.

"But there and then I was mightily in love with Nora Shafto; and I knew that the winning of her was now to be the aim of my life, and that she would fight me hard.”

O ld Jem’s eyes, which seemed growing dimmer and dimmer as he lost himself more surely in the past, half lit for a moment and swept to the parson — who discovered straightway, to the discomfiture of his conscience, that in one thing at least he had estimated Old Jem unjustly.

"I ask your pardon. Parson,” quoth Old Jem, "for what I shall say next. But to give you a full understanding of my story I must speak plainly.”

His eyes moved from the parson.

"As I said, I was mightily in love with Nora Shafto. I had no thought to marry her — though when ’twas too late I would have wed her a dozen times over if that could have brought her to me. That she was a witch’s daughter, and might be a witch herself, was naught to me. I was the sort of man who would have enjoyed

THE SUPREME WITCH


to wed a witch for the fun of it — were she a witch of birth. But I was not the sort of man to wed a needle-woman’s daughter — were she white-souled as an angel.

"And certes, Nora Shafto was that, so far as accepting my love was concerned. She could have loved me. For a brief while, during which she let me speak often with her, I saw her affection for me grow — grow radiant — burn forth. But that was before she knew I meant not marriage. Afterwards — for months afterwards, I followed her, waylaid her, besought her, vainly. The flame which had burned was dead. I offered her what she would — gems by the handful, gold and more gold, till she had the chance to beggar me well-nigh! She answered nay to all; not even a kiss did I get from her save a flick of one which I snatched.

"That was by the horse-pool below the town, of an evening in May of ’80. I had intercepted my young paragon, and most lovely was she to see, a-stand with her head thrown back and her color bright, holding me at a distance with her look. The frowning line was plain betwixt her eyebrows, her eyes were all anger, and there were revealed — one near each nostril — two little stern furrows which somehow made her face appear old without taking away its youthfulness — a strange blending that was hauntingly beautiful.

"But of late her tongue and manner had so scathed me that I could keep my temper only by the hardest effort. And this evening, being presently jabbed by a retort from her, I exclaimed:

" 'Nora, verily you are a little spite! You answer nothing but bitterness and spite to all I say, and I have never spoke a word to you that was not love and gentleness — till now.’

"She was in no way disconcerted by my new tone. She seemed rather to feel

braced and of better self-assurance by reason of it. There was less anger in her face, and a good deal more of bold contempt, which is a thing to make one seethe, coming from a person of low birth.

" 'Ay, you were very gentle, Mr. Lam* bardiston — thinking to fill my ears with toys,’ said she, using a common phrase of the time. 'Farthing toys,’ she added, her eyes most scornful.

" 'Farthing toys is a lie.’ I said. 'And that you know well.’ I strove to master myself. 'Nora, I promised — I promise, to put round your fingers, round your neck, round your pretty curls, toys worth the ransom of this town. ... You will do all the gaining, I shall do all the spending- ’

"She moved her shoulders quickly, lifting her chin higher and looking deliberately away from me.

" 'Ay, that’s your sleek prating,’ she said in a slow, loathing way, — 'you will do all the spending! . . . And you blamed me for a liar! You — that will do all the spending! . . . Oh!’ cried she, looking back to me — and I saw in her eyes that she hated me — 'Oh, why doth it not choke you — that damned lie? You will spend some bits of gold, but I — I must spend my soul — my soul! . . . Mr. Lambardiston whines to me to buy him a little diversion — with my soul. "Let us two voyage through loveland,” quoth he. And / am to pay for his voyage — with my soul! Faugh! you blackguard cur!’

"Nora Shafto was ready with words, and her voice was of a better-bred quality than fitted her station — for after her mother’s hanging a lady of the district had taken her into her house and cared for her well until her own death. But this denouncement had more barbed wit than anything she had given me yet — and it smarted me mightily; though I covered



diis with a laugh, deeming that a kiss would be ample amends for the invective, and determining that this instant I would take it.

"There was a horseman riding slowly up the lane towards us, but I cared not for him, and stepped across to Nora with a word of my intent. I noted that, instead of seeking to dart aside, she put her hand to the basket of flower roots, dug from the hedge, which she was carrying; and then my hands clapped on her shoulders and my lips touched a comer of her mouth as she jerked it past me.

"She stamped swiftly on my foot — I wore but shoes — threw off one of my hands, whirled, and got free, the basket dropping to the ground and emptying forth its plants. From amid these she whipped up a dull, stout knife.

" 'So that is Mr. Lambardiston!’ she gasped. 'Mr. Lambardiston — of the great gentry that visit the law on poor folk. Mr. Lambardiston, that was made deputy sheriff a se’nnight since. An attacker of maids!’ She showed me the knife. 'I want you to try again,’ she said; 'for yonder comes a gentleman that shall swear I killed you fairly.’

"I had a good mind to try again. But the fellow on horseback had flipped up his nag, and was trotting forward all a-grin; and I had no sword with which to stay him from interference, whereas a very long iron was jogging by his leg. Withal, as Nora had fleered, I was deputy sheriff, and could not but cut an unseemly figure in the affair, which, by an argument with the arriving knave, might be much noised.

"So I turned from her, limping with my hurt foot.

" 'You witch’s jade!’ I said; 'you have the black temper of a witch yourself.’

"I heard her draw in her breath at that I heard her move, as though she meditated to cast herself on my back. But then she spoke mockingly:

" 'I knew it!’ cried she. 'I knew your brute’s mouth would go to my poor mother. .. . Oh, ay, I have a witch’s temper, Mr. Lambardiston, and witch’s craft enough to keep myself out of your hands however you strive.’

"At this last idle saying — as I deemed it — I faced about for a moment and quietly bade her cease from dangerous words of witchcraft. For though I never would have repeated them to her harm, the horseman was now within earshot.

"Having given which warning, I went home.

"Two days afterwards her brother, Francis Shafto, a big, dour-visaged fellow, placed himself surlily, with extreme impudence, in my path as I was entering the town. He threatened that if I so much as spoke to Nora henceforth, he would so beat me with his cudgel that I should lie abed for many a week; and he added ’twas his belief no magistrate or judge would do other than hold him justified in this.

"It was plain that I must have him cleared out of the place. I wrote that same day to a friend, captain of a secondrate of the navy; and a week after this, half a dozen sailors went to Shafto’s farm and impressed Master Francis for the sea — most lawlessly, I confess.

“Hearing that he was taken off, with Nora left swooning from the fury with which she had struggled to tear him from the sailors, I felt I had done cleverly. His release would be an additional bribe to offer Nora. . . .

"I had not done deverly; I had done fatally.

W. T.— 8

THE SUPREME WITCH


w(r ■ HB first hint I got of the truth was

A a report that the seamen, on their road to the coast with Francis Shafto, had been charged into by a vicious bull. Then followed the news that no bull had attacked them, but a black filly, which, bursting suddenly through a gate, had raced straightway upon them and, biting, lashing, trampling, like a fiend, had badly torn one man, broken the leg of another, and killed a third outright. Francis Shafto, whose hands were tied because of fight he had made at the farm, was the first to be knocked down, but was not harmed by the beast, which presently, setting her teeth in his coat, began to drag him away; but a sailor, who by now had drawn his whinger, struck her on the shoulder, whereat she dropped Shafto and clattered off fast.

"I was starting forth for London when I had these tidings. Beyond being somewhat pleased that Shafto was unhurt, I was little interested. But returning hither a few days later to renew matters with Nora, I was prettily astounded to find that she was in jail, accused of having changed herself into a black filly and slain a sailor with the hope to rescue her brother.

"I will tell you what was evidenced against her. The filly, when driven off by the blow from the whinger, was seen again by no man, nor was anyone in the countryside to be found who owned her or remembered to have seen her. At the time of the onset Nora was a day gone from home, having told her friends that she would privily follow the press-party and, it might be, persuade some folk to attack it for her. She came back on the day after the filly’s attack. She was very wearied and draggled and white, and in great pain from a cut across her shoulder, which had been done, she said, by striking against a fence in the dark.

W. T.— 9

"Now the tale of the filly and the whinger had reached here before her; and, everyone knowing of her mother, tongues were already a-wag. It needed but the cut on Nora’s shoulders to set the town mad with excitement. Never had there been so clear a case of a child inheriting evil magic! And the strength of this magic in Nora! She was a far more dangerous witch than ever her mother was. The magistrates were clamored at to commit her to prison, and this was done ere she had been home many hours — a crowd lingering about the jail till nearly midnight, roaring and threatening to break in to her, and everyone saying that no man could account himself safe while she were alive.

"I knew not whether to believe Nora a witch or to flout the notion, but I did know one thing — she should be neither hanged nor harmed, if my influence could shield her; and I was very certain it could.

"Forthwith, using my sheriff powers, I proclaimed penalties against any that should make a turmoil outside the jail; and I called out and stationed therein a score of train-bandmen, armed to the eyelids. I used the rough of my tongue to the magistrates who had caused the arrest and detention of Nora instead of flogging the mob that had clamored against her.

"And then I went to Nora.

"My purpose was to dispel her fears at once, to tell her that I would see she was not put on trial at the assize, that indeed I would get her freed ere the week was out. And as I strode with the chief turnkey to her cell I was sure she would read much of this in my face, and, in her relief and gratitude, give me a kinder welcome than of late.

"When the fellow had unbarred the door, I bade him begone to a distance.



and, swinging back the door myself, I entered the cell.

"Nora greeted me with a gasp of her breath, with stormshine in her eyes. Despite that I came to a standstill, she moved, facing me, to the far wall. Leaning against it, with her head held back and touching it, she commenced to rage at me, her voice low for the most part, yet often thrown hither and thither by her passion — the palms of her hands now and again beating upon the wall.

"What need to tell you her speech? ’Twas the old tale of hate over again, yet now twice as bitter, with its accusation that I had planned her brother’s carryingoff, whereby I was responsible for the pass she was come to.

"For a soace she would heed no word

x

of mine. But anon she began to listen to my protest that I would avert all peril from her — obtain her quick release. While harkening, she seemed to cool fast from her rage, her palms lying quite still against the wall, her eyes lacking luster. Her face had become wooden, as the saying is. This I little liked.

" 'For your favor,’ she said, on my pausing, 'I am to love you? Is that the compact?’

" 'Scarce a compact,’ I answered. 'I am not so mean a man I will not save you unless you shall love me. No, no, Nora; yet I shall hope you will change to me; and mark you this — if you do, your brother shall swiftly be libertied from the navy.’

" ’Ah-h,’ she said softly, a dreaminess In her eyes — eyes that were much my study when I was with her; they were so fluent of expression, so beautiful. 'Ah-h,’ she said, 'in truth — in truth, there is no villain worse than you in all this villain world! For see, you are high-placed, with my poor life and my brother’s much in

your power; wherefore you should be of stem honor, Mr. Lambardiston — should you not? — that we and such as we could ever trust you. But what are you?’ She breathed between her set teeth with a hissing sound. 'If my mother’s spirit is here beside me,’ she said, 'of which I am very sure, what must she think of you? Have you no whit of shame, striving to break me in the room where my mother doubtless stands?’

" 'Why doubtless here?’ I asked.

"She looked upwards. Following her glance, I saw above us a balk of dark oak spanning the cell. I exclaimed loudly; for I was moved by the cruel thoughtlessness which had caused Nora to be placed in the very room in which her mother was hanged.

" 'You shall be taken out of this,’ I said, making a step to summon the turnkey.

"But far from thanking me, she brought me to a halt by declaring she would liefer remain, and would entreat Mr. Palmer, the governor of the jail, to put her back in this cell, did I have her removed.

"The dreaminess had gone from her eyes, but for some seconds it came again. I could not tell whether she spoke chiefly to me or to herself when she said:

" 'I do remember my mother very well, though I had her for so little a time. She was a dear, sweet mother, and I know doth yearn to hearten me now that I am accused as she was. ... I think I am more near to her in this room than I could be elsewhere on earth.’ Her voice sank, becoming a moan, soft — scarce unhappy. 'I have wanted my mother. None knows how much! She was all tender love, and the world is loneliness and cruel as stone. I shall be glad to go away to my mother, though I would it were not by the hangman.’

THE SUPREME WITCH


"Then her eyes, meeting mine squarely, lit of a sudden. There was a quick rousing of her mind and body. She started from the wall and bent towards me. 'But rather would I go by hanging, rather by the roasting-post, than come to you — you sneaking dog! Ay, an hundred times rather!’

"It was dear she could not be reasoned with that day. I turned on my heel, wasting no more words; and, walking from the jail, I decided that my best plan would be to seem to abandon her until she had been put in greater fright than she was in at present. I would let her stand her trial, which I doubted not would result in her condemnation; and then I would secure a pardon.”

Old Jem sipped from his glass. Setting it down, he relapsed in his chair and clasped his hands, without having looked at any of his auditors. His gaze brooded darkly on the wall opposite him.

"She was tried at the .summer assize. She pleaded ‘not guilty’, and was not threatened with torture to make her alter that. For the judge was old Jack Phillips, no firm believer in witchcraft — as his words to the jury showed. But the jury took only a few minutes to find her guilty; and she was condemned to be hanged in the market-place, where her mother was to have been flung off.

"Already I had arranged almost fully about getting the pardon; and after the case Jack Phillips threw in his weight with me; and I had the pardon in my hands with forty hours to spare. But I meant to bring Nora fairly to the ground, with no fight left in her, this time. I had charge of the execution — Holden, the sheriff, being bedridden- — and I intended to say naught of the pardon until my pretty one was within a few minutes of being carted forth to the gibbet, and the uproar of the mob, sounding from the marketplace, should tell her that, outside the prison, she would have no safety, despite her pardon, except she drove forth with me and my train-bandmen and lodged in my house.

"I would forbid any sheltering of her in the jail. And by a gift of drink to the mob I should have inflamed it to an extraordinary ferocity, such as, in her stubbomest hate of me, she could not dream to face. Oh, I had Miss Nora in a rare trap from which there was no escape but into my doorway.

"With her pardon under my pillow, I slept complacent of mind through the night which she would deem to be her last.

“T started for the jail early in the morning — the clearest, sweetest July morning I had ever known, with the hills beyond the woods wondrous outstanding and gleaming in the sunlight. I went afoot to enjoy the air, having ordered my coach to be at the jail for my return with Nora.

"Her hanging was to be at nine, opposite the Red Bull. Passing behind the market-place, I felt the air a-tremble from the vast confusion of voices coming thence; and at intervals these uplifted in a shout of execration against her that nigh stunned one — which noise reaching me as I paused before the jail to warn a group of persons that I should permit no gathering there, was like the tumbling down of thousands of planks of wood.

"I smiled to think what a tempest would burst when the news of the pardon spread (I had increased my train-bandmen to fifty), and to think what indignation would be shown by sundry gentlemen who were to meet me in the jail — when it was disclosed to them that the pardon { which they would have expected instant tidings of) was by no means newly



arrived. These same gentlemen — Palmer the governor. Captain Jones and Sir Hugh Gerrow, justices — were prone to take offense at my high-handed acts, as they termed them.

"However, I saw not how the latter two received the tidings; for about half after eight, they being not yet come, I informed Palmer, bidding him tell them, and went up to Nora’s cell. On my way I met Ralph Timmins, tire hangman, who had put her mother to death by means of the beam in the cell. He was an oldish man now, with his thin beard streaked white and brown.

" 'There be a riot of howling in the market-square, your worship,’ said he. ’ ’Tis as it was in her mother’s time, or worse, I’d affirm.’ He rubbed his chin with his knuckles. 'A queer, sad business, sir — these two. Both so pretty to look on and like as a pair o’ pink roses.’

" 'You will have no hanging today, Ralph,’ I answered; 'she is pardoned. But you shall nothing lose in fees.’ Unwilling to stay even long enough to get out some gold for him, because of my eagerness to greet Nora, I added: 'Wait for me below.’

"The door of Nora’s cell was open, two turnkeys standing by the threshold. I gestured them away and walked in. I could perceive that Nora had gone white at the sound of my approach. Perchance she knew not my step — thought one was come to take her to the cart. When I confronted her the color began to come again to her cheeks; and the line of the little frown between her eyebrows was deeper than I had ever discerned it. She held herself rigid, the fingers of one hand gripping motionlessly a cluster of her dark curls.

"Well, I showed her the pardon. I lifted my finger, telling her to listen to

the outcry in the market-place, which was borne to us; and I explained to her that only by taking refuge in my house could she preserve herself from the savage anger of the town. Not until that last did her face lose its stoniness, did her eyes cease from looking balefully into mine.

"She raised them towards the beam; her fingers twitched amid her curls. 'Oh, my mother — mother! mother!’ she said, her lips so quivering that 1 believed she would fall to sobbing.

" 'Now, come at once with me, Nora,’ I said gently.

"She gave but one sob, a strange, sighing one, and her gaze returned to me.

" 'What if I ask Mr. Palmer to harbor me here?’

" 'I will not allow him.’

" 'I had wagered that — bully of every man!’ Then she spoke with greater steadiness. 'You believe you are the winner betwixt us, but I believe I quoth true when I said I had witch’s craft enough to keep myself out of your hands.’

" 'Come,’ I said.

"She took her fingers from her curls and pointed to the pardon. 'Until that is given to Mr. Palmer, his warranty to release me, you can not force me to stir, or force any man to stir me, bully whom you shall. And I will not stir except Mr. Palmer comes hither to bid me, or Mr. Drew doth bid me.’

“Drew was the chief turnkey, one of the two who had been conversing with her. He had been present at her mother’s death, and — I suspect — had been pitying to the daughter.

"Frail though Nora’s argument was, I made no dispute. I should get her more quickly to my coach by bending to her whim. I started immediately to go down to Palmer, beckoning to Drew to accom- ( Please turn to page 134)

Coming Next Month

M ’GRATH came upon the glade almost before he knew it. The moon hung in the low branches, blood-red, high enough to illumine it and the throng of people who squatted in a vast semicircle about it, facing the moon. Their rolling eyes gleamed milkily in the shadows, their features were grotesque masks. None spoke. No head turned toward the bushes behind which he crouched.

He had vaguely expected blazing fires, a blood-stained altar, drums and the chant of maddened worshippers; that would be voodoo. But this was not voodoo, and there was a vast gulf between the two cults. There were no fires, no altars. But the breath hissed through his locked teeth. In a far land he had sought in vain for the rituals of Zambebwei; now he looked upon them within forty miles of the spot where he was born.

In the center of the glade the ground rose slightly to a flat level. On this stood a heavy iron-bound stake that was indeed but the sharpened trunk of a good-sized pine driven deep into the ground. And there was something living chained to that' stake — something which caused McGrath to catch his breath in horrified unbelief.

He was looking upon a god of Zambebwei. Stories had told of such creatures, wild tales drifting down from the borders of the forbidden country, repeated by shivering natives about jungle fires, passed along until they reached the ears of skeptical white traders. McGrath had never really believed the stories, though he had gone searching for the being they described. For they spoke of a beast that was a blasphemy against nature — a beast that sought food strange to its natural species. . . .

You can not afford to miss this superb novelette — -this gripping, thrilling tale of the ghastly horror that stalked the swamps of the Mississippi River, a tale of glorious heroism and the hunger of a black god. It will be printed complete in the February Weird Tales:

THE GRISLY HORROR

By ROBERT E. HOWARD

ALSO

THE WEB OF LIVING DEATH

By Seabury Quinn

A terror-tale of a strange house in the swamp — a weird tale of stark horror and eery happenings.

THE BODY-MASTERS

By Frank Belknap Long, Jr.

A strange weird story of the far-distant future — a tale of mechanical robots and synthetic love, by the author of "The Space-Eaters.”

MURDER IN THE CRAVE

By Edmond Hamilton

A grim story of a terrible ordeal— a night of terror ten feet below the surface of the ground.

THE SILVER BULLET

By Phyllis A. Whitney An eldritch tale of horror, of a terrible adventure on Loon Mountain, and a talisman that was potent in the old days against witches and warlpcks.

Also, another thrilling installment of Paid Ernst’s weird-scientific novel, “Rulers of the Future.”

February Weird Tales - Out February 1




( Continued from page 132) pany me, so that Palmer could send him back for Nora. Then it came to my mind that her boast anent witch’s craft might have some subtle meaning. What if she were planning to kill herself? At once I swung round and went to the entrance of the cell, whither the second turnkey was advancing. Nora stood much as I had left her.

"I intercepted the turnkey, whispered that he should watch her narrowly. Then, giving one more glance at the sweetly molded face and the eyes balefully following me, I rejoined Drew.

"I found Palmer and Jones and Sir Hugh Gerrow standing in a passage within the main door, with Ralph Timmins a yard or two from them waiting expectantly for me. Within a minute Palmer had dispatched Drew to bring Nora to us, and then I had leisure to note that Jones and Gerrow were even more cholerically silent than I had anticipated. I surmised that they had been examining my motive in taking Nora to my house.

"I let them have my back, and gazed along the passage to the stone stairs, looking for Nora to appear round the bend of them. Anon I recollected Ralph Timmins and gave him three guineas, which moved him to very many thanks. These, however, I scarce heeded, for I was watching the stairs again, exasperation growing in me as I realized that Nora was contriving somehow a long delay.

" 'Palmer,’ I said presently, 'that girl is making a to-do of sorts — the little ingrate! I beg you go yourself and fetch her.’

"I heard him take a step behind me. But then he spoke to Timmins:

" 'Ralph, go you and tell Drew to hasten with her.’

" 'Ay, go, Ralph,* I said.

T immins mounted the stairs at his sharpest pace. My three guineas were spurring him. Yet when full time enough was passed for him to have reached Drew and one of them be back with Nora, no one came.

" 'They are seeking her hood or dusting her kirtle, or more like she is swooned with happiness,’ said Jones, on Palmer himself remarking that Ralph was somewhat long gone.

" 'Nay, tell the truth as it is,’ said Gerrow. 'The maid is not over-raptured with Lambardiston. . . . And, deuce take me!* he added, with his spleen coming to the surface, 'I can not tell why we stay to see the meeting of the child and the gentleman.’

"There was a considerable sneer about the last word which whipped my attention pretty smartly from the stairs. I faced round, and was on the point of retorting hotly, when I was diverted by the casting open of a door beside us. Three of my train-bandmen stepped forth from a room. They saluted us, and two of them marched off. The third, a sergeant, paused to shut the door.

" 'Nay, leave it,’ said Jones. v We get some daylight thus. . . . Faith!’ he continued, as the sergeant went away, 'how queerly dark it hath grown in this last minute! A storm is on us.’

’Tis the suddenest thing,’ said Gerrow with astonishment. He lifted his cane towards the barred aperture above the main door. 'Not a minute ago the sky yonder was fresh blue, Palmer; I was looking at it. See it now, the smokiest brown I ever beheld’ — he broke off with an extraordinary gulp, flicking down his cane and jabbing the end hard upon the paved floor — 'I — ever — beheld,’ he repeated, sheer amazement in his voice, 'save once , a wintry morning nigh thirteen. (Please turn to page 136 )

Back Copies

® ©

Because of the many requests for back issues of Weird Tales, the publishers do their best to keep a sufficient supply on hand to meet all demands. This magazine was established early in 1923 and there has been a steady drain on the supply of back copies ever since. At present, we have the following back numbers on hand for sale:







Jan.

Jan.

Jan.

Jan.

Jan.

.

Feb. -Mar.

Feb.

Feb.

Feb.

Mar.

Mar.

Mar.

Mar.

Apr.-May

Apr.

Apr.

Apr.

-

—

May

May

June

June- July

June

June

June

Juiy

July

July

J ul y

Aug.

—

Aug.

Aug.

Aug.

Aug.

-

Sept.

Sept.

Sept.

Oct.

_

Oct.

Oct.

Oct.

Oct.

Nov.

Nov.

Nov.

Nov.

Nov.

Dec.

Dec.

Dec.

Dec.

These back numbers contain many fascinating stories. If you are interested in obtaining any of the back copies on this list please hurry your order because we can not guarantee that the list will be as complete as it now is within the next 30 days. The price on all back issues is 25c per copy. Mail all orders to:


840 N. Michigan Avc.

Chicago, ISSinois



( Continued from page 134) years ago, when I stood in this very passage, and Ralph Timmins was gone up to hang this girl’s mother — this girl’s mother! . . . Jones, Palmer, do you mark the marvel of it? Here I stood, with Amphlett the sheriff, and with Harry Lambardiston — Lambardiston’s father. And up above there was death for a witch, as there was near to have been for her daughter in this hour — and that up above too, for there would have been dangerous trouble in the market-place had she gone thither. List, you can hear the tumult from it. So we heard it then — and through this doorway ’

"Gerrow moved athwart the room’s doorway, and instantly his spare, elderly face was illumined by a sickly, yellow light, v/hich showed him staring with something akin to fear, with his lips working.

" 'Yea, there it is!’ he cried, pointing shakily through the doorway. 'There is the selfsame sky that was over us.’

M TWT ow, having been preoccupied by -A ^1 Nora’s tardiness, I had not noticed the change to gloom until Jones spoke of it. In my surprize at perceiving how deep an obscurity was about us, save in the yellow light’s path, I straightway forgot my anger against Gerrow; and, listening while he spoke of that other morning, I found myself remembering much that my father had said anent their standing in this passage. And when the dull, yellow glow swam over Gerrow’ s face I recalled vividly indeed how my father had spoken of the yellow light pouring through this very doorway — and in an instant, for no reason that I knew of, I felt my heart cold and heavy.

"I went to Gerrow’s side and glanced through the doorway to the window beyond; and at that verily I got a shock.

The sky was the sky of the morning when Mrs. Shafto was hanged. It was that same November sky — not a similitude made by the overcasting of the July sky. For the sun, seemingly, had fallen back from the height whence it shone as I walked to the jail, and was little risen; and it shone feebly through a gap molten in the thick murk — just as it had when I looked on it from the Red Bull in my boyhood. Its turbid light then had rendered Mrs. Shafto’ s coming death increasedly dreadful to me; but now, ere I had gazed on it five seconds, there slid over me a horror — on this morning when no execution was to be done! — a hundredfold worse than that which qualmed me when execution really was to be.

" 'Gerrow!’ I breathed; and I looked at him.

"He was gripping his chin tightly. His eyes were expanding, vacant. His mien was that of one dismayed to stupefaction by something he has discovered.

’Tis thirteen years ago,’ he said, slurredly, for his grip was hampering his mouth. 'This day is thirteen years ago — we are in November, ’67. . . . How can it be?’

" 'Gerrow!’ I cried.

"His vacant eyes sought me. A startled glitter sprang up in them. He gaped, taking his hand from his chin and holding it, limp-fingered, towards me.

" 'Lambardiston,’ he said, 'how like to your father you are! Why — why, you are he! Harry — Harry Lambardiston, old friend!’

"His hand dropped in affection on my shoulder. I clasped his arm to push it away, but I heard Jones speak to Palmer, and his words arrested me in the act.

" 'Palmer,’ he quoth heavily, 'my dear cousin, Ned Olpherts, is dead at last of the wounds the French gave him at Martinique.’



"Well did I know that Jones’ cousin, Olphert, lingering with wounds received when fighting under Admiral Harman at Martinique, had died in November, ’67.

"Palmer replied not, except to mumble of the fort at Tangier, and of the Moormen — seeming to believe himself in Africa, where once he had served.

"And then from the clockhouse began to ring forth the hour of nine.

"I clutched hard on Gerrow’s arm; for, though the sounds were not very near us, each stroke seemed to club my senses; and, what with the horrid yellow light, I was become giddy — helplessly giddy. And bemused too was I, in the strangest fashion, during a space. For, having reeled against a wall, pulling Gerrow with me, I leaned there thinking that my weakness and unaccountable dread were disgraceful to me who had gained such a repute for stout courage at the fight on Long Marston Moor; and full a minute must have passed ere I remembered that it was my father who fought at Long Marston — six years before I was born.

"I thrust Gerrow’s arm from me. Still leaning, I noted that the others stood very quiet, their faces set in a wholly bewildered expression, yet their eyes restless, in a lethargic manner, dwelling now on mine, now on each other’s.

U TT'- or a space we stayed thus without a A word; each man, I should say, striving to adjust the disorder which he knew his thoughts were in, and wondering if all were as distraught as he.

"Then we were aroused — even as I perceived that the yellowness was going from the light and the passage brightening somewhat — -by a footfall on the stone stairs.

"Ralph Timmins was descending alone. He came from step to step slowly, and despite the gloom that remained, and his

STOP Dandruff

and FALLING

HAIR !

Don’t continue to endure Itching dandruff and falling hair. Have a clean, healthy scalp. Give your hair a chance to grow. No matter how stubborn your case is, no matter what else you've tried, if you want QUICK RESULTS, send today for DANTUM; Try it at our risk!

SEND NO MONEY Just send your name and address, and we’ll send your DANTUM treatment by return mail, O. O. D. for $1.00 plus postage. Or, enclose DOLLAR BILL with your letter, and we ship postpaid. Your money back if DANTUM fails!

DANTUM PRODUCTS 739 N. Troy St., Dept. 10, Chicago

■

HYPNOTIZE

GAIN LOVE, FAME AND FORTUNE — CONTROL OTHERS. Complete Course of Instruction, Oriental Secrets, 26 lessons. Become a Master of Colossal Power. Limited time only, $1.60.

DR. CHARLEMAGNE

4611 Maple Way Seattle, Wash.

LONESOME?

, Let me arrange a romantic correspondence for you. Find yourself a sweetheart thru America’s f foremost select social correspondence club. A friendm — reSv. jsssr ship letter society for lonely ladies and gentlemen. Members everywhere; CONFIDENTIAL introductions by letter; efficient, dignified and continuous service. I have made thousands of

EVAN MOORE P. O. BOX 988 JACKSONVILLE, FLORIDA

yiCTORY OVER AGEING

Not by drugs; with a Cream Embrocation acting instantly, better than all tonics. Result guaranteed. The tube only $1.00. Write for free booklet.

LUC PROUVESKY, M. D.

36 Ave. Danton, Llvry-Gargan (S-et-O), France.

CURIOUS BOOKS

Privately Printed the largest publishers in the

UNITED STATES of privately printed books on Oriental Love, Uneensored Exotics, 1 Amatory Adventures and other Curious Sex Customi. Send for free Catalogs.

PANURGE PRESS, 70 Fifth Ave., New Yoric> Please send me your illustrated brochures FREE on curious, privately printed books.

| Name — Age...

I Address



distance from me, I saw that there was yet in his face a far greater confusion than had ever been in my companions. Confusion! — it was the completest astoundment! Save that his pale blue eyes were wide open, as though from some waxing torment of his mind, he was in a stupor. He seemed a man midway between a dream that was terrible and an awakening that was more terrible. Above his streaked beard his cheeks were marblewhite.

"Slowly he moved down. At the last step he tripped, nearly pitching on his head.

"It was then that Gerrow’s voice rose in a very wail. 'Oh, see that!’ he cried. 'What means it? What witch’s craft is on us!’

"I had seen, with my father’s saying of how Ralph Timmins had stumbled at the bottom step darting like a sword-blade through my brain. That stumble, and Gerrow’s final words, discovered the truth to me.

f 7 knew — ay, I knew what Timmins, coming drag-foot straight to me with his eyes now on my face, desperately questioning me, was going to say. 1 knew ! My poor, wondrous little Nora, who deemed she had witch’s craft enough to keep herself from me! How supremely had she wrought with her magic!

"Timmins stopped, and saluted me.

" 'Sir,’ he said, 'I have put the young witch away, as your worship bid.’

"Knowing, I had waited petrified. But his words stung me to life — to madness. I shrieked twice or thrice, making the passage echo — Timmins crouching and wilting before me. With both hands I seized his neckcloth, tearing it off him as I strove to smash him against the wall. I struck him on the face. I wrung out my sword, cursing him, promising him every agony

that man can inflict on man. Then — I can not tell why, save that I was bereft of reason — I shouted:

" 'Bring her! Go, bring her down to me!’ — menacing him with my point.

"He moved his hands hopelessly.

" 'Your worship, she is dead.’

" 'Bring her!’ I screamed.

"He turned and went to the stairs. He mounted and was gone behind their bend; and once more I was watching those empty stone stairs. I felt a hand patting my arm. ’Twas Jones; for Gerrow, some way behind me, was saying: 'Look, blue sky

and clear sunlight! . . . Man, open that door, I am nigh swooning.’ And the main door grated open, which would be done by Palmer’s hand.

"I took not my eyes from the stairs. I listened strainedly; and at last the sound of slow steps, the steps of someone descending sideways with a burden, came to me from beyond the bend. And then appeared Nora’s little feet in their gray hose — extended in the air, the shoon fallen off. I saw her kirtle edge; I saw her knees, swathed in her kirtle, half arched upon Timmins’ arm. In another second I should have seen her face. But I could not endure that much. I leapt round with fresh and frantic screams and ran out to my coach.”

Old Jem put his hand over his eyes, remaining very still for a while.

"After the rain yesterday,” he said, his voice gone wan and low, "I went walking, and came home by the horse-pool. I halted in the lane, thinking much on Nora. This is December month, but ’twas May to me in the lane; and how clear I could see Nora with her sweet, angered face, her poor little basket of flower roots — and her old knife, which I would, with all my heart, she had drove



through and through me. . . . Nora, dead these six-and-fifty years!”

He flung down his hand, raising his chin.

"There then,” said he, "is my answer to you gentlemen who are so mighty scornful of witchcraft. Why Nora changed not into a bird or moth to escape me, why she spelled me not blind or cripple, I can not say. But in what she did, showed she not the supremest witchcraft that could be? She changed the sky, she threw back the year to thirteen years before; and while we in the passage were but half under her magic, which was enough for her, she so spellbound Ralph Timmins and Drew, the turnkey, that without ado they hanged her from the beam in the cell, believing they were hanging her mother. ... I made no endeavor afterwards to punish these fellows. Think you I would have spared them if the circumstances were not as I have told you?”

O F the listeners it was the parson who spoke. The hints of great sorrow which had come from Old Jem had not been without effect on him. So that, hateful though the picture of his host in early manhood was, he was no longer void of pity.

"Mr. Lambardiston,” he said, and his tones were gentle, "I hold your story of this awful happening to be true in every word — so far as that happening was understood by you and others. But I deem you have erred as to the real nature of it ... I can not believe it was any witchcraft of Nora Shafto that took her from you.”

"Could aught save witchcraft have done it?” exclaimed Old Jem with rising anger.

"Yes,” answered the parson. For a moment he was silent, then:

(Please turn to page 144)

- — District Mgrs.—

We guarantee exclusive territory on quality Flavors, Spices, Cosmetics, etc. Also bulk goods, concentrates, private brand labels. In price and quality combined, favorite values defy competition — challenge all comparison! You can work your territory over and over — enjoy a steady growth of sound repeat business. Write for price list, new business-getting deals, attractive premium offers.

Favorite Mfg. Co., 2 1 07 Kennedy N. E.. Minneapolis, Minn.

ART LESSONS

Become T&lented Artist with Big Income

This thorough home-study Course teaches Commercial Art, Cartooning, Lett or Inn - - anutomy, perspective, adv. layout, short, cuts, tricksot profession, etc. By Alexander Murray, famous ArtScbool ins' motor. Natural ability not necessary. Over 816 clear, concise instruction plates assure easy, rapid development. 126 sheets of drawing paper included FREE, 'lompleta Course (n > more to pay) only SI .99 postaid — or send no money, pay postman plus postage. ' * ■” *- ->-■ — Li - 1 — '- meeting. Tom

iplete Course (no naore to pay) only ' - or send no money, pay postman i_._. v back if rot delighted after inspecting,

your spare time of today Into BIG MONEY tomorrow. EDUCATIONAL SUPPLY CU. Dept. 161-A

RACINE. WtS,

DON’T BE

CUT

UNTIL YOU TRY THIS „ WONDERFUL TREATMENT

tor pile suffering. It you have piles in any form write for a FREE sample of Page’s Pile Tablets and you will bless the day that you read this. Write today. E. R. Page Co., 2423-C Page Bldg., Marshall, Mich.

Yes

For as little as a thin dime (10c) we will RUSH to yon (postpaid) A sample copy of sparkling: new issue ' of one of America’s largest, most romantic and truly pulse-quickening:

Social Magazines, filled brim full with human-interest personal descriptions and photos of truly lovable ladies and worthy grentlemen seeking sincere pen-pals and lasting happiness . . . or, complete list of ladies' or gentlemen’s names, addresses and photos for 30c; CUPID’S INTERNATIONAL MESSENGER, P. O. Box W-2750, Ashland, Va.

10c

^ Grow Mushrooms in your cellar

or shed. Exclusive new process. Bigger, better, quicker crops. More money for you I Enormous new demand. Write for Free Book. American Jg) Mushroom I ndustries,Dept. esi. Toronto.Oot.i


Coming SoonLORD OF THE LAMIA

By Otis Adelbert Kline

A fascinating novel by a master of weird fantasy

Watcli for this story in


UGGESTIONS as to stories for the Weird Story Reprint section have been pouring in lately. Most of the requests are for the reprint of stories from old issues of Weird Tales, which is now completing its twelfth year. We will give careful consideration to these requests, as far as we can, keeping always before us the desires of the greatest number. It is because of numerous requests that we are reprinting in this issue The Supreme Witch by the late G. Appleby Terrill. And next month we will reprint another favorite, that strange ghost story by the late Henry S. Whitehead: The Fireplace, which was very popular when it was first published in our pages ten years ago.

Best Stories of 1934

Julius Hopkins, of Washington, D. C., writes to the Eyrie: "The November WT is an excellent issue and I thoroughly enjoyed every story in it. However, two stories stand out in my mind as the best ones in this issue. I pick for first place the last part of The People of the Black Circle because of its very exciting and fast-moving conclusion. The second-best story, in my estimation, is The Golden Glow. When one considers the possibilities of such rays as are used by the professor in this story, he will find that it may not be long before such things will be in actual use. My selections of the twelve best stories in WT during 1934, judging by their uniqueness and originality, are as follows: The Solitary Hunters, Black Thirst, Vampires of the Moon, Scarlet Dream, The Satanic Piano, The Colossus of Ylourgne, They Called Him Ghost, The Isle of Dark Magic, The Three Marked Pennies, The People of the Black Circle, The Black God’s Kiss, and — guessing on this one — Black God’s Shadow.”


Against Serial Stories

W. C. Murray, of Fort Warren, Wyoming, writes to the Eyrie: "I have been reading Weird Tales magazine since January, 1927, when I bought my first copy. I have not missed a copy since. I thought Queen of the Lilin in the November issue exceptionally good. Let us keep our magazine weird. How about more horror tales such as The Copper Bowl by George Fielding Eliot and The Coffin of Ltssa by August Derleth? I would very much like to read The Coffin of Lissa again in the WT reprint. . . . Here’s to more short stories, no serials, and more vampire and horror and torture tales.”

A Suggested Reprint

Alonzo Leonard, of Portsmouth, Ohio, writes: "For those readers who so tumultuously clamor for interplanetary thrillers under the delusion that they are weird stories, I suggest that you republish Frank Belknap Long’s supreme story, The Devil-God, which appeared in June 1925. ’Nuff sed.”

Gripped in Suspense

Claude H. Cameron, of Toronto, writes: "C. L. Moore again scores with The Black God’s Kiss. It is ... a superb piece of workmanship and it held me gripped in suspense until I finished it. That is sufficient. The character of Jirel may become as famous to us as Conan. I vote her first place. Stories like The Pistol I like because they are somewhat believable. Gurwit is excellent at any time. H. Bedford-Jones’ The Sleeper was written in the proper vein with just the right amount of allusion. I detest weird stories whose very weirdness is removed by laborious explanations of intent. Your readers are not morons. As has often been stated by your readers, the truly desirable weird



tale is weird by virtue of what is suggested. Howard’s The People of the Black Circle is very good ; I will remember it for some time to come. ... In the November WT, there is no question but that S. Gordon Gurwit wins first place for The Golden Glow. I do not favor too many interplanetary yarns or science stories in Weird Tales, but Gurwit’s story was so well thought out and so perfectly written that I can not avoid giving him first place. Second comes Paul Ernst — Concert to Death. Sufficient to say that I believe the story will outlive the author. Howard’s story, The People of the Black Circle, had a very satisfactory conclusion. I vote it as a suitable companion piece to Jack Williamson’s recent masterpiece. All in all, the November issue is well up to the top in the usual high standard I have come to expect. Now for something in a different vein — - somehow Price’s yarn, Queen of the Lilin, left me cold. The idea and entire plot is threadbare from use. Furthermore, it wasn’t as smooth a job as I had grown accustomed to expea from this master craftsman. . . . Gurwit’s story far outshadows Price’s yarn any way I look at them. Nude With a Dagger also falls into the class of the stale plot.”

The Golden Glow

Jack Darrow, of Chicago, writes to the Eyrie: "For first place in the November

issue my choice goes without a doubt to The Golden Glow by S. Gordon Gurwit. I like the author’s style. I got a big kick out of the faa that the warring nations could do nothing at all except swallow their pride and give in. E. Hoffmann Price with his Queen of the Lilin was very entertaining. I am glad that Price is writing more often than he used to. The cover by M. Brundage is a nice piece of work, but there is nothing weird about it. Keep the covers weird. . . . The People of the Black Circle ended well. The shortest tale, John Flanders’ Nude With a Dagger, was a peach. Let’s hear more from him.”

The Prophet’s Beard

Fred Anger, of Berkeley, California, writes to the Eyrie: "By the beard of the prophet ! Several things concerning the November issue have aroused my ire, and several others have done just the opposite. Queen of the Lilin surpasses all the others by its sheer beauty. It certainly takes E. HoffMEMBERS of the Futnrlst Society are many years ahead of their time. They know

more, earn more, and live more fully than most other groups of people. By joining

them, you follow an advanced trail of evolution. You learn how to solve your money problems. In knowledge, you will surpass the average college graduate. Instead of

a slave, you become a ruler of this planet. Write today for information, asking about

our Clearing-House of Knowledge.

B FUTURIST SOCIETY, 416 FRANKFORT AVENUE, CLEVELAND. OHIO

FULL YEAR HOROSCOPE and advice on three questions by “Famnoyz” — one dollar. Send birthdate. V. DeLoss Gipe, Dept. A, Alma, Mich.

BE A DETECTIVE

Work home or travel. Experience unnecessary. DETECTIVE particulars FREE. Write GEORGE T. L. WAGNER, 2640 Broadway, N. Y.

ii

Happiness Insured.

How? Thru rare and intimate knowledge of life forces daringly revealed in “Special Book,” of plain facts in understanding knowledge. Everyone should own this “Special Book,” formerly $1, now 50c postpaid, plainly wrapped. Ellen Lee, Box 1703, Hollywood, Calif.

T — /iLr*? Here is your opportunity.

■ Correspond with Ladies and Gentlemen everywhere in U. S. This is your life. Many seeking pen pals. M. S. Family Corr. Club, P. O. Box 1017, Sta. A, Cleveland, Ohio.

WE PURCHASE AM, INRIANHEAD PENNIES. Prices range 5c — $25. Send 10c for purchasing lists. Photocent, 100 Forsyth, N. Y. C.

CLASSIFIED ADVERTISEMENTS

Small ads worth watching.

Business Opportunities

SEEL BY MAIL! BOOKS, NOVELTIES ! BARgains! Big profits! Particulars Free! K. ELFCO, 525 South Dearborn, Chicago.

Female Help Wanted

LADIES: WE WANT NEEDLEWORKERS. Good

pay. No canvassing. Stamped envelope brings particulars. ROYAL NOVELTY CO., Portsmouth, Ohlp.

Novelties

RARE BOOKS, CARTOONS, PHOTOGRAPHS. 20

Snappy Samples, $1.00. Samples, Catalogue, 25c. W. BRAUN, 353 West 47th, Chicago.

Personal

WORLD’S GREATEST MATRIMONIAL MARAZINK 10c. Thousands seeking correspondence. Some wealthy. SO halftone photos, 150 latest names, addresses, descriptions, complete, 50c. Western Heart, B-5335-W, Portland, Oregon.

LONELY? I’ve a pal for you, lonesome like yourself. Attractive members everywhere (many wealthy). Description Free. Mrs. Budd, Box 753-T, San Francisco, California.

LOYAL FRIENDSHIP CLUB. Established, reliarble. Members everywhere (many wealthy). If lonely, writ® Box 620-W, Santa Cruz, Calif.

WHY BE LONESOME? WHEN STAMP WILL find future sweetheart. Heilman, General Delivery, Indianapolis.



mann Price to write weird literature. I hope that you intend to print a great deal more of his work* S. Gordon Gurwit was rather disappointing. His story, The Golden Glow , failed to register; perhaps it is my dwarfed mentality, but it seems to me that this story was only the general run of death-ray, worldsaver tales. Robert E. Howard brought his serial, The People of the Black Circle, to a very nice close ; it takes second place on my voting list. A-n-d, speaking or Robert E. Howard reminds me of our friend Conan. Robert Bloch’s nasty crack about our bloodthirsty hero has certainly started something. For the past day the grindstones of Angervilie have been whetting my ax, and I am now ready to charge into the fray waving the banner of Conan the Cimmerian. I used to consider Conan a vile and despicable hero, but I have changed and he is now foremost in my estimation as a hero. Bring on your tale by Bloch, The Secret in the Tomb, and I'll cut it to the ground. Paul Ernst and Kirk Mashburn seem to leave a blank space; indeed, so boring did I find Voodoo Vengeance that I lapsed into peaceful slumber while reading it. Next let us turn to that small but nevertheless immense atrocity, Peigman’s Beard, by August W. Derleth. Call it hexerei, call it witchcraft or anything you please, but it was rank. Ditto, only more vehemently, to Nude With a Dagger.” [To

it, ye loyal Conan supporters. A story by Robert Bloch appears in this issue. The Secret in the Tomb will be published lata:. — The Editor.]

Short Comments

Adolphe de Castro, former American consul at Madrid, and co-author with Ambrose Bierce of The Monk and the Hangman’s Daughter, writes: “I have been a fairly constant reader of Weird Tales, and among many delights have enjoyed the art of Price, particularly in his latest story, Queen of the Lilin.”

Miss Mary L. Briggs, of Los Angeles, writes: "Much as I dislike scientific thrillers, The Golden Glow held my attention. Voodoo Vengeance was gripping and colorful. I would like weirder cover designs. If not an author’s page, couldn’t there be photographs of contributors ?”

Mrs. Jane Howard, of Marlin, Texas, writes: "Robert E. Howard’s serial story, The People of the Black Circle, is one of his very best.’’

The Dust of Death

Ernest Krah, of Trenton, New Jersey, writes to the Eyrie: "Though I am not addicted to writing fan letters, I must say that I have been reading Weird Tales for a number of years, and I consider it the best of

(V)-

( 2 ).

( 3 )-

( 1 )-

( 2 ).

My favorite stories in the January WEIRD TALES are:

Story Remarks

I do not like the following stories; Why?

It will help us to know what kind of stories you want in Weird Tales if you will fill out this coupon and mail it to The Eyrie, Weird Tales, 840 N. Michigan I Ave., Chicago, 111. 1



its kind on the market, for it surpasses anything else I have ever read. The weirder the better to my satisfaction. A number of years ago I read a story in your magazine that I must say was one of the best stories I have ever read, the kind that makes the chills run up and down -your spine. The author’s name, the year and month I do not remember, but the title of the story, I think, is Fungus Isle, I would appreciate your giving it to us again as a reprint.” [We have printed several stories about fungi, but none entitled Fungus Isle. The story you ask for is probably The Dust of Death by Geoffrey Hewelcke, which appeared in Weird Tales for May, 1931. The story was 20,000 words in length, too long to use as a reprint. — The Editor.]

Bar Belis

Are the Greatest Body Builders

If you want t* get enormous development with super strength, send for my

FREE Booklet —

“PHYSICAL. DEVELOPMENT 1 *

It contains various sizes of Bar Bells. All Strong Men use Bar Bells. Be strong and healthy.

LOUIS SCHMITT, Dept. 3, McHenry, III.

Lonesome?

Let me arrange a romantio correspondence for you! Find a sweetheart through the world’s foremost social magazine, the one that is different. Members everywhere. Send 10c for magazine.

J. F. HENRY

Dept. WT., 3043 Jackson Blvd., Chicago

LET MY SPIRITUATiNSIGHT HELP YOU.

I am an understanding friend wtth whom you can discuss your most secret personal affairs in strictest confidence. Write fully; ask questions. Advice $1.00. J. Benjamin Hsbbs, 55 North Previtiencia, Burbank, California.

CLASSIFIED ADVERTISEMENTS

SMALL ADS WORTH WATCHING

About that Slave-Girl

A reader in New York City who merely signs himself "T” writes to the Eyrie: 'T have been a reader of stories of the supernatural for many years, and of Weird Tales since I discovered the magazine. Thank heaven for a magazine that does not ’type’ its stories. Your stuff is really first rate (and my business is teaching literature, my hobby the study of the ancient civilizations of Greece and Rome) . Indeed yours is the only non-professional publication I always read. Not long ago you had a letter in the Eyrie from somebody who wanted good ghosts, and I want to send my thanks for a few. . . . Also you had in the Eyrie a note from someone who wanted to see on the covers M. Brundage’s conception of one or two beautiful girls chained in the slave marts — crouching in terror or exposed nude upon block. I’d like to see such a picture.”

Your Favorite Story

The Golden Glow by S. Gordon Gurwit easily took first place in your estimation among all the stories in our November issue, as shown by your votes and letters to the Eyrie. The concluding installment of Robert E. Howard’s serial story about Conan, The People of the Black Circle, was next. Let us know what stories you like best in our magazine, as that will help us to fill each issue with the kind you want. Write a letter to the Eyrie, or fill out the vote coupon on page 142 of this issue.

Detectives

BE A DETECTIVE. MAKE SECRET INVF.STtGAtions. Experience unnecessary. Write, United Detective System, 1623-T W. Grand, Chicago.

Photo Finishing

FILMS DEVELOPED, ANY SIZE, 35c COIN, including twe enlargements. Century Photo Service, Box 829, LaCrosse, Wisconsin.

Songwriters

WRITERS! POEMS, MELODIES. AMAZING offer. Hibbeler, D-156, 2157 North Avers, Chicago.

Personal

LONESOME? MEET FRIENDS! Get South’s Finest Social Paper. Full of pnotos and descriptions of fine men and women, wishing early marriage. Many wealthy. Some near you whom you will be pleased to know. Don’t be Lonely. Sent for 10c and stamp. W. H. Beeson, P. O. Box 7C9, Houston. Texas.

ENJOY LIVELY INTERESTING CORRFSPONDence! Meet your “Ideal Mate’’ through “Fidelity”. Remarkably efficient plan. “Distinctive Individualized Service.” Particulars, specimen descriptions (sealed). BOX 128-WT, TIFFIN, OHIO.

LONESOME — BOOK OF PHOTOS AND DESCRIPtions of wealthy members sent free in plain wrapper. The Exchange, AE-3827 Main, Kansas City, Mo,

IF YOU WANT AN AFFECTIONATE, ROMANTIC

sweetheart with money, write: Mary Lee, Box

445-W, Rolia, Missouri.

WORLD CARD CLUB, King, N. t>., have sweethearts everywhere, membership 25c year.

Miscellaneous

MVSTIC CURIOS. PSYCHIC AIDS. RAKE NOVELties. Scarce Manuscripts. Occult Books. Catalogue 6c. Post Box 196, Chambersburg, Pa.

DIVORCES IN MEXICO. FREE INFORMATION

and Validity. International Law Office, First National Bank Bldg., El Paso, Texas.

HYPNOTIZE — New instruction course just printed. Learn this amazing power. $1. "Practical Hypnotism” — 10c. DeSala, Campbellsville, Ky.

WEIRD LIQUID LIGHT; Pocket Lamp. Formula; dime. Pelishek’s, Adeli, Wisconsin.



NEXT MONTH

The Web of living Death

By SEABURY QUINN

A terror-tale of a strange house in a dismal swamp — a weird story of stark horror and eery episodes. This novelette will hold your eyes glued to the printed page, with its breath-taking suspense, vivid action, dangerous episodes and strange events.

W ith this tale Author Quinn introduces a new central character: Thomas Carter, whose duties lead him to investigate mysterious disappearances for a life insurance company. In this weird detective mystery his powers are put to a severe test; for the utterly unusual happenings of the tale are unique, in fiction or in fact. This startling story will be published complete

in the February issue of


On sale February 1st

To avoid missing your copy, clip and mail this coupon today for SPECIAL SUBSCRIPTION OFFER.

WEIRD TARES 840 N. Michigan Ay©.,

Chicago, 111.

Enclosed find $1.00 for whioh send me the next five issues of WEIRD TALES to begin with the February issue (51.75 in Canada). Special offer void unless remittance is accompanied by coupon.

Name

Address — —

City State

THE SUPREME WITCH

( Continued from page 139)

"Mr. Lambardiston, this is to be a reply to your question, 'Could aught?’ ’Tis no attempt to interpret — I would not dare so to interpret — the happening. ... Of poor little Nora Shafto you have used the word 'supreme’. Bethink you, is not that word often given to a Veritable Power far asunder from witchcraft? The Supreme Power which stayed the sun upon Gibeon and the moon in the valley of Ajalon, which thrust back the shadow on the sun-dial, could with equal ease have transmuted the years for you that were in the jail — decreeing that thus should Nora, who, for all her childish vauntings of witchcraft, was truly 'white-souled as an angel’ ” The speaker paused. "Decreeing that thus should Nora go to her mother,” he ended mercifully.

For the color had ebbed from Old Jem’s cheeks, the very purple of his lips was mud-hue, and consternation and growing despair were in his face.

"I had not thought of that!” said the old man whisperingly. "If that should be the right answer to all of it, Parson!” Then a new expression crossed his face, and during an instant his voice was firmer. "For Nora’s sake I hope it is, for that means heaven for her! . . . But if it is the answer, Parson — what is going to become of me?”

"I believe such things as that hope for Nora’s sake do make some little pica for us,” said the parson quietly. "Also ”

The courtly king’s messenger nudged the scrivener with his knee. The two got up and lit their pipes at the far end of the room, noting that the parson left his chair and took one beside Old Jem.

And not until they perceived these two clinch some matter with a long handclasp, did the smokers go back to the table.

W. T.— 9

A Phantom from the Ether

Threatens the Lives of all Mankind

T he first warning of the stupendous cataclysm that befell the earth in the fourth decade of the Twentieth Century was recorded simultaneously in several parts of America. At twelve minutes past 3 o’clock a. m., during a lull in the night’s aerial business, several of the larger stations of the Western hemisphere began picking up strange signals out of the ether. They were faint and ghostly, as if coming from a vast distance. As far as anyone could learn, the signals originated nowhere upon the earth. It was as if some phantom were whispering through the ether in the language of another planet.

THE PHANTOM OF THE ETHER

T he inside story of a tremendous threat engineered by a phantom from the ether— a threat to gain control of the world — is thrillingly told in "The Moon Terror,’’ the most enthralling fantastic mystery of the age. The gigantic powers and clever plans behind this super-dream will hold you spellbound.

Here Is How You Can Get This Amazing Book FREE

For a limited time only, we offer this book to you without cost, with each subscription to WEIRD TALES for six months. Simply send $1.50, the regular six months’ subscription price for WEIRD TALES, and this book is yours without further

cost. You receive the magazine for six months and this book is sent to you free of charge.

Limited Supply

This offer may be withdrawn at any time, so we advise you to order now. Remember, the supply of books is limited. Send today!


840 N. Michigan Ave., Dept. S-54, Chicago, III.

! WEIRD TALES, Dept. S-54,

| 840 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago, 111.

| I enclose $1.50. Send at once, postage prepaid,

' the book “The Moon Terror,” and enter my subI scription to WEIRD TALES for six months to 1 begin with the February issue. It is understood.

| this $1.50 is payment in full.

| Name

| Address

I City State

Wfl I >

^Ztone

TvthER TIRES

lTc.ANP^ T f^rrV

SSS-USw

Save money on all standard brands, reconstructed by the special Adamite scientific process. Adams tires are fully guaranteed to give best of service under severest road conditions for 12 full months and are backed by the vast financial resources of this well-known company. Now is the time to buy, before prices advance,

%°' 2 '

BALLOON TIRES

CORD TIRES

Size Rim

Tire

Tube

Size Tire

30x3 $2.25

Tube

$0.65

29x4.40-21

$2.15

$0.85

30x31/ 2.35

0.75

29x4.50-20

2.35

0.85

31x4 2.95

0.85

30x4.50-21

2.40

0.85

32x4 2.95

0.85

28x4.75-19

2.45

0.95

33x4 2.95

0.85

29x4.75-20

2.50

0.95

34x4 3.25

32x41/6 3.35

0.85

1.15

29x5.00-19

2.85

1.05

33x41/ 3.45

1.15

30x5.00-20

2.85

1.05

34x41/ 3.45

1.15

28x5.25-18

2.90

1.15

30x5 3.65

33x5 3.75

1.35

1.45

29x5.25-19

2.95

1.15

30x5.25-20

2.95

1.15

35x5 3.95

1.55

31x5.25-21

3.25

1.15

Heavy Duty TRUCK Size Tire

TIRES

Tube

28x5.50-18

3.35

1.15

30x5 $4.25

$1.95

29x5.50-19

3.35

1.15

32x6 8 ply 6.95

2.75

30x6.00-18

3.40

1.15

32x6 10 “ 7.95

2.75

31x6.00-19

3.40

1.15

36x6 8.95

3.95

32x6.00-20

3.45

1.25

34x7 9.95

36x8 11.45

3.25

3.95

33x6.00-21

3.65

1.25

40x8 13.25

4.15

31x6.50-19

3.60

1.35

Heavy Duty Truck Balloons 1

32x6.50-20

3.75

1.35

Size Tire

Tube

34x7.00-20

4.60

1.65

7.50-20 $6.95

$3.75

35x7.00-21

4.60

1.65

8.25-20 8.95

9.00-20 10.95

4.95

5.65

| DEALERS WANTED

9.75-20 13.95 6.45

1 ALL OTHER SIZES

z

MONTH

WRITTEN

GUARANTY

BOND

HOW TO ORDER

Send $1 deposit with each tire ordered. ( $4 with each Truck Tire. ) Balance C. O. D.

If you send cash in full deduct

5%. Remember — 12 months’ guaranteed service or replacement at half price.

ADAMS TIRE &RUBBERCO..Dept[!H

* 2 . 515 Sou th Michigan Ave., Chicago. Illinois

[THE END]
