============================================================
Weird Tales
Volume , Number 
Date: January 1925
============================================================
============================================================
TABLE OF CONTENTS

  1. "Luisma’s Return Arthur J" by Burks
============================================================
============================================================
LUISMA’S RETURN ARTHUR J
by Burks
============================================================
they remembered.

He died a few years ago, in Cap Haitien, insisting, even on his deathbed, that his story was true!

STRANGE TALES from SANTO DOMINGO

By ARTHUR J. BURKS

( Estil Critchie)

The author of “ Luisma ’s Return” and “Thus Spake the Prophetess” has written a powerful series of short stories for the readers of this magazine. The first of these, “A Broken Glass Chimney,” appears in WEIRD TALES next month.


ELOTI A,' hesitant, whispered:

“It is — impossible. ”

- “You need say nothing 1 moiie. '’'returned Folke, grimly.' “Y'ou do not care— had I any right to hope you would?"

She half raised appealing hands to ihim. The mute gesture halted even | his bitterness.

i “I,, eaqnof -help it.'" slip pleaded. i“I know ybu for t lie soul of honor, I but — I cannot help it. If—” j “ If I were sPhilip Kihgswell? ’ ’ i The man’s brows knit into a stern, jugly frown. Flora’s gaze was un- •seeingly intent on the grass. Vague land indistinct though her face was in The shadows, Follce knew that it 'flushed in hesitant assent. lie fancied even more. Leaning forward, one tense hand gripping the back of her chair, he almost screamed a question:

“Do you — do you love Kingswell? ’ ’ No answer came. The cripple’s grip tightened till it seemed that the wood must fairly splinter.

: “Do you?"

“Yes." Almost inaudible her whisper.

1 “My God! Flora!"

“I know." She did not look up.

He stared moodily at her, as one who sees- his- world engulfed in pitiless destruction;

“I'd rather have died a thousand deaths—"

“Oh, I know.” Iler lips quivered. “I — I know it all. I cannot help it. Yon — surely you will spare me — ’’

Her voice broke into a sob. Instantly; dropping to his knees, he humbly kissed her hand. She snatched it from him in sudden horror, as from a thing contaminate.

“Forgive me," lie muttered, chokingly.

It was all a blur on his memory when he reached the street: he saw nothing clearly save her pale face with its downcast eyes; felt nothing, save the choking heartbreak that came when she snatched away her hand. The arc lights far behind threw his shadow on the pavement, ludicrously long: his fancy accentuated the distorted shoulder and filled in the cruel, scarred lines of the face.

He had come involuntarily to Sandrv’s door before he recollected their appointment. The friendship of old times unconsciously drew him to Sandry; Sandry, with his quaint love of the bizarre and the hideous that led him to pet toads and lizards and to




open his heart to the ugly youth at college. The soothing, sympathetic touch of the Orient spoke to him of Sundry as Alkazim, the Egyptian servant, with a silence that was part of the strange place, ushered Folke into the Egyptologist’s study.

About the visitor all things breathed the sensuous beauty of the East. The rugs under foot were soft, the hanging of exquisite silks, and on all sides magnificent mirrors tossed back to one another the glitter of a myriad of lights. A subtle perfume soothed him. And then, crossing the threshold, he came face to face with Philip Kingswell.

In an instant the scarred countenance was livid, as there rose before t he cripple's mind the scene in Flora’s garden. Yet, mingling with Folke ’$.hate, was admiration. This was a man whom women could not help but love; even those keenvisioned women who, beneath his handsome outer showing, gazed into the repellent depths of the soul.

“Hello, Jack, old boy!” cried Kingswell, cheerily, stretching forth his hand. “Didn’t expect to see me in Pharaoh's cage, did you?”

His laugh was like music. Folke took the hand clammily. His soul burned with envy of the man who could greet even a discarded rival as a friend.

“Hurry up, Pharaoh,” added Kingswell, turning toward an inner door. “I’ve an appointment for 10 o 'clock. ’ ’

“Very well, Phil,” responded a soft voice, from the adjoining room; and a moment later the orientalist crossed the rug toward them. There was the hint of another world in his quiet step, his soft tones, the unchanging fixity of his dark eyes.

“Alas, I am still Pharaoh to you, Phil,” he murmured, sinking into a chair. “When will you learn respect for wisdom?”

“When I wed,” laughed Kingswell.

“Which is never— eh?”

“Nay — very soon.”

Folke 's hand, viselike in its grip, closed on the edge of the table. The eyes that stared into the mirror opposite saw only the scarred face and the distorted shoulder.

“I may, therefore, congratulate you, Phil,” murmured the scholar, gently, “but — not the woman.’*

Kingswell *s laugh was evert ‘more cheery.

“Let's postpone the sermon,” he urged, “and dig right down to business, my Lord of the Pyramids.”

Sundry smiled inscrutably.

‘ ' When I invited you here, my friends,” he said, “I spoke of an important experiment. You are to be the subjects. Be not alarmed — I offer you an honor, not a peril.”

His soft, cooing tone had grown and surged into zealous enthusiasm.

“My experiment concerns the soul,” he pursued. “What is the soul? Whence comes it? Whither does it go? Or is there, as skeptics tell us, no such thing? If we answer these questions, we answer all questions. You both know,” he added hesitantly, as though apologizing for such discussion with men of intelligence, “that old fable of Pythagoras, concerning the transmigration of souls. I met that belief often among the Eastern races, particularly among the Hindoos. Certain archeologists: to the contrary, the ancient Egyptians, at least in some degree, shared the Hindoo belief— possibly originated it. I have studied many ancient writings. These ancient writings convince me of the existence of a soul, that it can depai’t from man for a time and later return to him, and that this, befalling in sleep, causes those strange soul journeys which we call dreams.”

All the while he spoke, the strange, tense gaze of his dark eyes,.aglow with enthusiasm, never left the faces of the two spellbound auditors.



“So, my friends,” concluded Sandry, solemnly, ‘ 1 we shall now prove or disprove for all time the existence of a soul.”

-Kingswell’s careless laugh rang out. Folke involuntarily shivered. Sandry, noticing, the tremor, smiled reassuringly.

“You have nothing to fear, my friends,” he urged. “You will sleep —that is all. While sleeping, you may visit strange scenes. When you wake, I may not be here; if so, write what you have seen and heard while sleeping, and leave the writing with Alkazim. You must tell no one— no, not one— what has befallen you, till I give the word. Are you willing?”

Folke nodded. He scarcely seemed to understand; oppressing his mind was the memory of that evening in Flora’s garden. Kingswell’s careless laugh jarred upon his soul.

Sandry still spoke, but to Folke the words came indistinctly. The voice faded into a whisper, as though, still discoursing but in tones that every moment grew softer and softer, the orientalist were gradually vanishing into unutterable distance.

LONG hours afterward, John Folke, rousing himself, sat sharply up in his chair. The lights were turned low. Sandry was gone. Alkazim, the silent servitor, stood immobile at the sleeper’s elbow, as though he had been long waiting.

“Where am I?” demanded Folke, the sensation still fresh upon him of a long yet unwearying journey. ‘ ‘ Where is Sandry —and where is —? ’ ’ “Gone,” returned the sei’vant, with an expressive shake of the head. “Here,” he commanded. “Write.”

He motioned toward a little table close by, and silently placed a chair. In mute, unquestioning obedience Folke sat before the table, and, taking up a pen, wrote unceasingly for more than half an hour. With each added word the story of his soul journey unfolded itself more and more clearly. At length he laid down the pen.

Alkazim, without a word, brought his hat and coat, and helped him put them on; then, still in the same strange, unmoved silence, followed to the door, closing it softly after him.

The street was deserted. Folke knew that the hour must be late. His mind still surged with the memory of his strange experience. The talk with Flora, the cruelly significant snatching away of her hand, seemed to have befallen dim centuries ago. But as he hurried homeward, weariness came. The clear outlines which rose before his mind while he wrote at Sandry ’s table gradually faded. All in a maze at last, Folke entered his rooms, and, too tired even to turn on the lights, tumbled sleepily upon the bed.

He woke next morning with a raging headache. He could not think. He knew only that a hideous nightmare of some kind had left him stifling. Gasping, he staggered toward the stair, where he clung to the balustrade as he descended.

The woman of the house gazed queerly at him.

“What do you want here?” she demanded, sharply.

But Folke did not answer. A moment later he staggered into the street.

The fresh morning air revived him. By degrees, as he hurried blindly along, his head grew clearer. A vague consciousness of utter dishevelment haunted him. His mind was too dulled to reason. The fresh air must first finish its beneficent work.

He had traversed four blocks when he came upon a little group of people. In the center was an excited, almost frantic man, talking incoherently. Folke looked thrice before he recognized Sandry — Sandry, usually so calm, now strangely agitated, with horror written on every line of his face. At sight of Folke his eyes grew staring.



“That queer, ugly little humphack?” muttered a man in the group. “ Who'd have thought it?”

Folke shrank away, but Sandry ran to him. In his hand he gripped a morning paper.

“Kingswell!” he gasped.

“What’s the matter?” demanded Folke. Ilis very voice startled him, so strangely resonant was it.

“Haven’t you heal'd?” cried Sandry. “I’m on my way now to the poor fellow’s rooms. I can’t believe it. There must be a mistake — a horrible mistake. And only last night — oh, this is awful! ’ ’

“What— what is awful?” fairly yelled Folke, his whole frame filled with sickening suspense. “What is it, man?”

‘ ‘ Here, ’ ’ answered Sandry.

lie spread the paper before the other’s eyes, as he did so pointing to an item on the front page; a brief item, but under flaring headlines. Folke caught the paper from Sandry’s trembling fingers. His eyes widened with terror and anger as he read:


Shot Down by Opponent in Poker

Game, Victim Is Identified As John Folke— Assailant Makes Escape — Startling Developments Promised.

The item itself was little more than a repetition of the headlines. At an early hour that morning a man had been shot down in a gambling den on Brush Street during a quarrel over a poker game. His slayer had escaped, but the police had the murderer’s description and were hot upon the trail. Through papers found in his pockets the victim had been identified as John M. Folke, a graduate of the state university and a well known scholar, residing in rooms at 279 Forest Avenue. Though a trifle eccentric,

Folke had hitherto borne an excellent reputation. A disappointment in love was thought to have started him on his downward course. Startling developments —

Sharply checking his reading, the man with a sudden, violent movement tore the paper in twain, and cast the fragments from him.

“You are right, Sandry,” he cried, fiercely. 4 4 There is a mistake — a mistake for which some one will pay dearly.”

In sudden alarm, Sandry gripped his sleeve.

“Don’t do anything rash, Kingswell,” he urged.

“Kingswell!”

The name leapt involuntarily from Folke ’s lips.

“Kingswell,” he muttered, thickly. Why—?”

The words he was about to utter died on Ids lips. Swinging half round as he spoke, the terrified questioner saw, mirrored in the bright window of the comer drug store, the handsome face and debonair figure of Philip Kingswell.

The street seemed whirling. Tottering, the man felt the supporting strength of Sandry ’s arm.

4 4 Why, man, ’ ’ cried the orientalist, sympathetically, “you’re ill.”

“No,” came the answer, in a shaky voice. “But, in God’s name, tell me — who am I?”

Sandry stared as one amazed; then his amazement merged in a compassion that was tenderly silent. But the oriental scholar did not need to speak. Intuitively, in the same moment that he voiced the frantic question, the truth forced itself compellingly upon the questioner. Without an answering word from Sandry, he knew that when, the night before, Philip Kingswell ’s soul returned from its journey, it had, through some terrible mischance, found* refuge in the earthly body of John Folke. He knew that he who had hitherto been John Folke


must henceforth dwell in the body of Philip Kingswell. The body that had been his, responsive to the mastery of Kingswell ’s soul, had, after leaving Sandry’s rooms, gone to the Brush Street den in pursuance of a previous appointment, to play out its low game to the sudden, tragic end. Had that body lived, the two might, with Sundry’s aid, have once more exchanged; dead, there could be no changing.

'"T'HE man’s face was deathly white as he gazed at his new image mirrored in the window.

Sandry still watched him compassionately.

“Come, Kingswell,” he urged, “don’t take it so to heart. Maybe it’s all a mistake. It must be a mistake. Folke would never have gone to a place like that.”

He. smiled, grimly.

“He was not your kind, Phil. It’s all a mistake— a mistake.”

The man’s soul seethed with mad, impotent revolt as lie listened to Sandry’s attempted consolation. To die, to have the name of dying in such ways as that— he was disgraced, unutterably and forever. And Flora — what would Flora think 1 Individuality still struggled, keenly resenting the bitter shame of it.

“Come, come,” urged Sandry, consolingly, “I’m sure it isn’t true.”

Then, suddenly, light burst upon the man: he knew that all he longed for in the world was his. Henceforth, if he must be Philip Kingswell, the new Philip Kingswell would be worthy. And what the soul of John Folke, the distorted cripple, in the old days must have hopelessly longed for, that blessing the same soul, new clothed, could have for the asking.

Heedless of Sundry’s astonished stare and wild questionings, the new r Philip Kingswell caught a passing cai’, bound for the West End — bound for Flora.

Announcement

the

February Number

of


The Unique Magazine

Contains an eldritch devil-tale of Verdun, the World War, and the gruesome specters that haunt the tunnels under Fort Vaux.

Whispering Tunnels

A Complete Novelette

By STEPHEN BAGBY

“When the tunnels whisper,” said the French soldiers at Fort Vaux, “ someone will die.” Though the Great War teas over, yet the whisper always foretold death. And then one night, the friend of the man who hud been proscribed as a traitor to France came to grips unth the Thing — and a terrible trisit was made to the devil-ridden shambles that lay beneath the fort. The incredible things that took pla-ce there, the malignant entities loosed by the medieval devil-worshipers, and the gruesome horror that fought for its life, are told in this utterly strange novelette.

In the February Issue

On Sale January 1 Clip and Mail this coupon today!


325 N. Capitol Ave..

Indianapolis, Ind.

Enclosed find 25c for a copy of the February issue, or enclosed find $1.00 and this coupon for SPECIAL. 6 months’ subscription to WEIRD TAXES.

Note: Special offer void unless accompanied by this coupon.

Name,

Address

City State

The SPECTER PRiSTEJSOF WRIGHTSTONE

bu Herman F! Wriqht

THE ruins of historic old Wrightstone Castle still rear their crumbling towers above the dreary Hampton Bog, near Manchester, a fast decaying but fitting memorial to the foul deeds and fiendish proceedings that have taken place within its bleak walls. The counts of Wrightstone and their families have long since removed to more favorable London, abandoning the old ancestral home to gloomy memories.

The following tale was told me by old Sir Mandeville Wright, forty-seventh count of Wrightstone, as it was related to him by his father, and thus came the legend down through the centuries from early days in England’s history.

Previous to, and in the early reign of James I, many strange and weird stories were told among the peasants of the eastle and its aristocratic owners, then residing at the court. The villagers told of how a specter horse bearing a figure in flashing armor pranced before the raised drawbridge. Then came the news of Count Charles’ death at the court by an emissary of the king. Then the priestess — the Specter Priestess of Wrightstone, as the apparition was termed — appeared, claiming as her victim a poor peasant found wandering near the edge of the bog after dark, m

After the death of his father, the late Count Charles, the eldest son, young Count Richard of Wrightstone, decided to leave the fashionable court and pay a visit to his ancestral home, which he had never seen. After making his intentions known, the young nobleman was astonished by the peculiar actions of his father’s old and trusted servants. Young Richard, on several occasions, had found them conversing together in low tones and caught his name mingled with that of a “priestess” in their mysterious conversations. They tried in various ways to dissuade him from going, and when questioned as to their peculiar actions they became quite sullen and silent.

Richard, not to be dictated to by the servants, determined to see Castle Wrightstone. Finally the day arrived when he was to leave for the home of his ancestors. Seated inside the coach with Scrooge, the old family butler, while the other servants perched on the front and rear outer seats, the young man started for the castle.

AFTER several hours of weary trav- -**■ el in silence, old Scrooge suddenly demanded, “Master Robert, have you by any chance ever heard of the druid priestess of Wrightstone eastle?”

THE SPECTER PRIESTESS OB' WR IGHTSTONE


■ • • Upon- tiie young map 's / negative answer, 5 Scrooge cleared his throat, as was his custom when preparing for a lepgthy; oration,.and began: “It was • always the wish, of Count. Charles,- your "father, to ‘ keep,.froth; you; the jsppomy.- secret * Ms,;pld hohie. He. gt|jfe; me ptoipiscL nef to let you ^u[ of the priestess^.hutii; Siuce you.

decided; to. visit Wrightstone It raK tell you for your own welfare.’ Jjfdi§fk;ive been told that your grandfat?bi\ Sir William, was murdered in tW- castle, but how or why he was ' •" rifuTffered you never knew. Did you ever reflect upon that?. The secret is.

, --Master; Richard, and. I like not to tell ^..ydu^-ljp.t, there is a curse upon Wright*

* i - V".; •. - • ■.

• - WiHia-m.. was found lying on

. the? floor of his -study, his heart torn..i’rom.y.his body — the worts of- the,!pries£ess. The g-ppqpition.is evidently a 1,ptt'uifl prjO-stess,. for she carried a.dnpdical sacrificial knife ip. her hand.

,.witti.whi’cli she pierces her victims ap'd tears out their living hearts. The.’ fiend ‘has 'haunted the castle for generations, and an Old legetid tells that 'the ’sflecter 'cAn never be laid Until two of the heads of the ruling family Of-Wrightstone have sacrificed their: -throbbing hearts to her gleaming seal-; pfeL -- When or how the legend originated none can tell; suffice it to say that in my time your grandfather and three peasants have died by her fiendish hand.

“It is for this reason, Master Rieha.rd, that’ I and the servants implored you to forbear from visiting the haunted.- castle. I am old. and age brings queer prognostications: I fear [ may live to see a second lord of Wrightstone meet his end thus. God forbid!”

With these words Scrooge lapsed into silence, and no amount of questioning from Richard could make the old man Speak further. By the time the party arrived at the castle Richard fully decided to investigate the

ha untings of the druid priestess. True, he had heard a few strange tales of his father’s castle, but of the priestess he had never been told.

: Though its crude, gray exterior betokened gloom, the bleak walls of Wrightstone hid richly furnished rooms, crackling fires ph the large hearths; and cozy corners hidden by velvet tapestries. The fil’st few weeks were, devoted to making the great rooms- habitable for the reception of the guests,’ and the incident of the specter and her weird slayings vfere forgotten by the young count for the while.

LATE one evening several weeks after his arrival at- the castle, Richard was reading over several old and musty manuscripts in the study, in which room the dead body of old Sir William had been found. The blazing logs on the hearth had dwindled to mere glowing embers, and the candles in the massive bronze candelabra were sputtering and burning low.

A strange silenee brooded oyer the aged structure, and a choking stuffiness seemed to pervade the room. Richard, annoyed by the choking atmosphere, laid aside the manuscript he was perusing and prepared to rise, when his eye caught the flashing reflection of the candle light on a polished surface before him. Looking up. he was horrified to behold the specter priestess of the castle standing before him.

His horror gave way to wonder as he gazed upon the beautiful figure that smiled down upon him. A young girl was the priestess, her golden tresses falling over her shoulders, which were draped in a long, flowing, white robe. Her lips were slightly parted in a smile, and her blue eyes seemed to convey a message of fiendish triumph: nevertheless they were entrancing and held the young man spellbound. In her right hand was grasped a gleaming, crescent-shaped


1'56

knife, while the other hand was concealed in the folds of her robe.

The young count’s tongue clove to the roof of his mouth, and he sank back in the chair exhausted and helpless. Unconsciousness began to numb his senses. lie heard a clear, bell-like voice that seemed to come from far away: “Death comes; prepare!”

Richard awoke just as the first rays of the rising sun streamed across the floor of the study. The fire had gone out, and despite the sunny cheerfulness, the peculiar coldness that reminds one of death hung about the room.

The young man recalled vividly the dreadful experience of the night before — but was it a reality, or merely a dream caused by a creative and wandering imagination? Which -was the truth the count could not say, for it seemed so vivid, yet so fantastic. He would tell Scrooge and get the old butler’s advice on the matter.

There came a gentle tap on the door and Scrooge entered, bearing a breakfast tray.

“Good morning, Master Richard,” began the butler. “How — why, what is the matter? Are you ill? ” lie asked in a startled tone when he beheld the count’s features.

“I merely had a rather peculiar dream, Scrooge. I shall be all right in a few minutes. ’ ’

“A dream? Not the — the priestess, Master Richard?” demanded the old man in a startled tone, his ruddy face becoming suddenly white.

“Yes, Scrooge, the priestess,” replied the count with a peculiar absent look in his eyes. ‘ ‘ I dreamed — or she really told me, I don’t know which — to prepare for death. ’ ’

“My God!” gasped the terrified Scrooge, dropping the tray. “You are marked for death within twentyfour-hours. Come, we shall leave for the palace at once. Leave this accursed place, Master Richard! ’ ’

“No,” answered the nobleman, slowly shaking his head. “I must stay here — to see her again. Her eyes — they have charmed me, so' filled with passion. Scrooge, I love the priestess and I would die to see her again.”

“You are bewitched by the fiend!” declared the butler, begging the count to leave the castle.

After vainly pleading with him, the old man finally left Richard, <

Gathering the other servants, Scrooge told them of the apparition’s appearance (for he knew it to be no dream) to their young master and stationed them near the study in a vain attempt to thwart the curse of impending death he believed must come.

Richard finally consented to Scrooge ’s staying in the study with him that evening, although he knew nothing of the platoon of armed servants without the doors.

As the night gradually wore on, both men began to doze. Once Scrooge awakened to find Count Richard softly snoring in the great leather chair by the table. Then Scrooge, too, began to snore.

The old butler was awakened by the rays of the sun shining in his facel Yawning and stretching, he arose from his cramped position and walked toward the window. Suddenly he stopped, his arms outstretched in astonished fear and horror. At his feet lay the cold body of Count Richard, his heart torn from his breast. The butler gave a cry and fainted beside his dead master. The frightened servants, hearing the cry, rushed into the room and stood horrified about the pair.

The next day the body of Count Richard was interred in the family vault of the counts of Wrightstone by the village priest. The servants with Scrooge closed Tip the haunted castle and departed for Loudon.

The curse of Castle Wrightstone w r as ended. The specter priestess was seen no more, but the descendants of

THE SPECTER PRIESTESS OF W R f GIITST ON E


Count Richard’s brother, into whose hands the castle passed, never dared take up their abode within its dreary walls.

jCHNISHING his story, Sir Mandeville drew from his pocket a clipping of the Times of March 24. 1878, and handed it to me. It was a short article and the paper was yellow with age. To the living heir of Wrightstone it conveyed the proof of the curse of his ancient ancestors:

Manchester, March 24. — While removing stones from the ancient ruined structure known as Wrightstone Castle, near here, to be used for building purposes in this city, several workmen found the skeleton of a young woman.

The skeleton was draped in a few strands of a decayed white robe. Clutched in the bony fingers of one hand was an ancient druidical sacrificial knife. The body was

turned over to Sir Ernest Clreystoke, of tinBritish Museum, who is of the opinion that the skeleton is that of a druid priestess, no doubt interred alive in the old castle walls.

Strewn around the body and grasped in one hand were found several bits of dried flesh, claimed by several physicians of this city, who examined them, to be human hearts. Dried blood was also spattered about near the body.

There lias been a revival of the old superstition of the “Specter Priestess of Wrightstone” among the villagers of this vicinity, and many are of the opinion that the skeleton recently unearthed is that of the specter priestess, w ho murdered her victims by tearing out their hearts. Tw r o of the Counts of Wrightstone were supposed to have met their deaths at the hands of the apparition early in the reign of James I. The present Count Wrightstone, Sir Mandeville Wright, is now residing at London.

What Do YOU Know About Spiritualism?

Read the Astounding Expose of Fraud Mediums —

“The SPIRIT FAKERS of HERMANNSTADT

By HOUDINI, The Master Magician

The Most Miraculous True Story Ever Written

The master of escape relates in this thrilling story his adventures when he fell into the hands of an unscrupulous band of blackmailers and murderers, who threw him, naked and handcuffed, into the black dungeon of an old castle on the Maros River in Hungary. IIOUDINI tells how he exposed their leader, the notorious charlatan medium Popkens, teacher of Rasputin, the Black Monk of Russia. This gripping true story, crammed with excitement and surprizes, together with many other startling stories, was published seriallv in the 1924 March and April numbers of WEIRD TALES.

We have a limited number of these on hand, and, while the supply lasts, will mail both copies, postage prepaid, to any address for


Address: WEIRD TALES, 325 N. Capitol Ave., Indianapolis* Ind.

Dept. H-3


DRIVEN many hundreds of miles from its course by a Caribbean storm, the super-airplane carrying Benton, Van Otter, Holton and Virginia Hart to Cuban waters crashes down into the Valley of Teeheemen in South America. The valley is a huge volcanic crater from which there is but one exit, known only to the high priest of Teeheemen. The party of Americans rescue several natives who are offered by the inhabitants as sacrifices to the two tremendous animals known as the teeheemen, and kill one of them. Then they join the forces of Duros, who attempts to overthrow King Urlus and Walum the high priest. After a successful battle, in which the firearms of the invaders are used to good advantage, it is learned that Virginia and Holton have been captured by the forces of the high priest.


WHEN Benton realized that Virginia and Holton had disappeared, he thought quickly of the best course to pursue.

‘ ‘ They have probably left to seek a place of safety,” he remarked to Otter.

A warrior of the Duros forces approached the three.


“The men of the high priest have seized the white gods’ friends,” he explained. ‘ ‘ I was on my way to join the forces of Duros in the arena, when I saw a company of the warriors of the temple with Walum the high priest. I hid in the entryway to the arena and saw them capture the white woman, Gala of Teeheemen, and the white man.”

“The priest has probably taken them to the temple, ’ ’ said Gomo. ‘ * He will place the white man in the temple prison, and the white woman and Gala may be taken to wife in the temple.”

Benton studied for a moment.

“There’s only one course for us to follow now, Otter,” he said. “We must ally ourselves with Duros and his fighters in the arena there. If we can defeat the forces of the king and high priest, then we shall have a chance to invade the temple and the prison and release Holton and Virginia.”

“You’re right,” Otter agreed.

“Let’s go, then,” said Benton, filling the magazine of his rifle.

“The forces of Duros are being driven back,” announced Gomo, who had been studying the progress of the battle in the arena.



Benton and Otter turned toward the battle and saw that what Gomo had said, was true. Though fighting bravely, Duros and his men were outnumbered and were retreating to the south side of the arena.

‘‘We can pick off a bunch of those birds from, here,” Otter suggested; "and not run much chance of their getting at us with their spears.”

Suiting the action to the words, Otter began firing into a crowd of warriors designated by Gomo as followers of Urlus, Benton imitated his action, and the two rifles began working havoc among the Urlus warriors.

At sound of the reports from the rifles, the Duros fighters took new courage and. began a terrific counter attack upon the followers of Urlus. The latter saw dozens of their most powerful warriors falling without spear wounds every time the thunder noise came from the gallery where the two white gods were stationed.

Panic began to seize the forces of Urlus, and the warriors, noting how far the white gods could kill, began to retreat. Duros and his men followed, and the slaughter became terrible as the men of Urlus went down by hundreds.

In fifteen minutes from the time that the men of Urlus began their retreat, the forces of Duros had cleared the arena and its large galleries,

‘ 1 The arena is a very valuable place for an army to possess. ’ * Gomo explained to' Benton and Otter. “It has high outer walls like a small city, and an army could hold it for months with sufficient food supplies. Young Duros will hold it with his men. They will drive hundreds of cattle into the arena and bring feed to keep them here so that they can withstand a long siege and not know hunger. It was part, of the plans of Duros to seize the arena first. That would give him a mighty fortification in the heart of the city.”

The statement of Gomo was rapidly fulfilled. Guards from the forces that had been battling in the arena quickly began to patrol the walls of the place. Additional forces began entering and, later, droves of wild-appearing cattle and sheep were driven into the arena. In the chambers under the galleries the soldiers of Duros established their quarters.

An hour later a messenger from Duros approached Benton.

“The king-to-be would speak with the white gods,” the man announced.

“Show us the way,” Benton replied, and the warrior started across the arena.

Benton and Otter followed with Gomo. Across the arena, strewn with hundreds of dead, they proceeded to a room in one of the apartments under the stands. The three entered and the warrior remained at the entrywav. Duros was seated on a bench, surrounded by several of his chieftains, among whom was Bolga.

As the white men entered, Duros arose and advanced toward them witli extended hands.

“Duros greets the white gods as brothers,” the chieftain exclaimed.

“The white gods are friends of Duros, ’ ’ Benton returned. ‘ ‘ They are ready to help him win the city of Teeheemen from Urlus.”

“Duros believes that such is the ease,” the chief returned. “Where is the other white man — and the woman?”

“They were captured by the warriors of the high priest and have been taken away, ’ ' Benton explained.

Duros was silent for a few moments.

“They have probably been returned to the prison or the temple. It is to those places that we must, send our spies to learn how we may best capture them. The king’s palace is another place that Duros desires to capture. With the temple, prison and palace in his possession also, Duros



will have little trouble in being proclaimed king.”

“We will help you,” Benton assured him. “We are very anxious to rescue our friends from the temple or wherever they may be. There is only one thing that the white men ask in return for their services, and that is that they be- permitted to leave the valley of Teeheemen in peace through the passageway of the mountains known only to the high priest. ’ ’

‘ ‘ There is the great difficulty, ’ ’ said Duros. “The passageway secret is known to none other than the high priest. If, when we capture the city from the high priest and Urlus, the passageway can be found, then the white gods shall depart through it into the land of the hereafter. I have said that I need spies. Gomo is a crafty man and would make a good spy. Will Gomo go to learn the secrets of the temple and its fortifications?”

“I will go,” Gomo replied.

‘ ‘ And I will go with him, ’ ’ asserted Benton. ‘ ‘ I must find the place where the white woman and white man have been taken.”

Duros smiled with pleasure at Benton ’s announcement.

‘ ‘ The white man will be successful, I know,” he asserted confidently.

“You must count me in on that deal, too,” Otter asserted. “I want to get a crack at that guy they call Walum.”

“Three of my men have also volunteered,” Duros continued. “Tonight they start. The white brothers must change their color. Duros will send for some of the stain of the damrock. It is the color of the men of Teeheemen. They can put the stain on their faces and dress in the same kinds of skins as the men of Teeheemen.”

“That’s a good suggestion,” said Benton, “for it solves a problem that I have been trying to determine. In disguise, as you have suggested, we ought to be able to get to the temple, and probably into it. We will leave

our rifles and other weapons here, for to attempt to carry them would arouse suspicion at once.”

T)ENTON and Otter turned their ^ rifles over to Duros, who in turn handed them to two of his men with instructions that they should not leave the thunder sticks until their owners called for them. A warrior was dispatched to bring the damrock stain for the white men.

Benton and Otter seated themselves. With Gomo they began planning their campaign for the coming night.

“The temple of Teeheemen,” Gomo informed them, “is guarded by a company of the best warriors of the city. They are allowed only in the outer courts. Only the high priest and his guards have access to the inner shrines and the sacrificial room. There are six maidens of the sacrificial shrine who wait upon the priest. They are the ones you saw carrying the statues of the teeheemen on the pedestals, when we were called before the king upon our arrival here.”

“How may we obtain access to the outer courts?” Benton asked. “If the temple has sliding doors such as the other public buildings, we shall have a difficult time getting inside. Our chief object must be to find Virginia and Holton and release them from their captivity. How are the doors operated, Gomo?”

‘ ‘ That is a secret known only to the adherents of the temple.”

“We must find out the secret of their operation, if possible. I believe that we can gain entrance to the temple by prying the grating from one of the roof windows, of which there must be a large number. We can let ourselves into the place with a rope or leather thong. I wonder what Duros will take as his next move toward dethroning Urlus. The latter still must retain a powerful hold on the city. Duros possesses, as I understand, one of the chief places of refuge for ofTHE V ALLEY OF TEEHEEMEN


fensive and defensive purposes: the arena where we now are.”

* ‘ Duros will spy for some time upon Urlus,” said Gomo. “When he is ready to strike he will do so with great swiftness. Urlus has been defeated in battle, and for a time at least he will remain in safety behind the great “walls- of his castle on the side of the -city. where the sun rises."

•i U'Wii not many of Urlus’ followers desert him and ebfne to Duros, since the latter has* been victorious in the: first encounter?” Benton queried, w: 'ft Many have done so this day,” Gomo replied.

'/The » hf temoon passed and late in tftfe evening the messenger returned bearing the damrock stain and two trappings fashioned’ from the skins of •tmirrials Such as the other Warriors of Tefeheerhen wore.' Benton and Otter ' immediately begaii putting on their ’-'disguises.’ ''

‘,T l n - half* an’ hour they were ready ■ for" 3 ‘the "night adventure, that confronted them'. Durds expressed himself' ’well' pleased with their disguise.

“YOu ' will deceive any of the ’ guards;” he assured them: “and since "you speak our language so well, you • c&ii obtain a 1st of information that Duros needs. Before you go, let us eat.” •

'A' warrior was sent for food, and returned shortly with a quantity suffi- ’ blent for the party. The men ate in silence, Benton and Otter thinking what course to pursiie but unable to plan definitely, for they little knew What dangers they were to encounter before the sun should rise again.


'\X7'HEN the door closed on the re-

» ’ tiring form of the wrathful high priest of Teeheemen, Virginia turned to Gala.

“ We must get out of this place.” she said. “X am certain that unless we make our escape some terrible fate is in store for us. ’ ’

“We shall be offered in the Temple of Teeheemen as sacrifices upon the altar,” Gala averred stoically. “Walum is angered. He will sprinkle our life blood upon the images of the beasts engraved on the face of the altar and pour it also upon the waters of the river of the temple where it departs from the valley into the base of the mountain, near the sacrifice room. The white sister of Gala can save herself in only one manner and that is by yielding to the desires of the priest.”

“Then I will gladly die.” Virginia asserted with determination.

Night came and passed, and 'no food was brought ’ to the prisoiie'rs. The •two young women spent much of the. time in Speculation' on the outcome of the battle in the afena.

/‘If the' forces' of Duros were victorious,” Gala asserted, “there is some hope of being rescued from Waluin.”'

Morning came again, and the. restless slumber into, which they had fallen was disturbed by the rolling aside of the stone door. Virginia •shrank as she beheld the powerful form of Banrup. the guard. The latter’s face showed unmistakable signs of the rough treatment it had received at the hands of Otter during the battle in the arena. Two of the warriors from the temple accompanied Banrup.

“The white woman and Gala -will come with Banrup.” he commanded. “The high priest has ordered that you shall view the morning sacrifice in the temple of Teeheemen. Then perhaps the white woman will consent to become the wife of Walum. ”

Virginia and Gala followed the giant, rather than offer resistance. The white girl dreaded the thought of his hands being placed upon her. The two w r arriors followed after the three to frustrate any effort of the two girls to escape.



In tha main court of the prison the party was joined by three more warriors, who were accompanying Holton. The latter was still bound and his wrists were swollen where the cords cut into the flesh.

The procession moved from the main court into an adjacent corridor and proceeded for several hundred yards until it halted before a wall. Banrup rapped against the obstruction, and in a few seconds a panel in the masonry slid to one side. The advance then continued into an adjoining corridor, which was followed for another fifty yards before it opened into an immense chamber.

As the procession entered the latter place, Virginia and Holton detected the continuous roar of water as it fell, apparently to a great depth. In the faint light that filtered through the overhead gratings, Virginia and Holton glanced about them.

‘'The sacrificial room of the temple of Teeheemen, ” Gala explained.

Virginia and Holton, as their eyes became accustomed to the faint light, began to distinguish the objects around them. At the opposite side of the room was constructed a large altar fashioned from stone of snowy whiteness. On the front of the altar were engraved three images of the beasts teeheemen.

To the left of the altar, the wall of the sacrifice room opened to the outer world and the two discovered the source of the continuous roar that tilled the place. The river of Teeheemen touched the Avails of the temple on the open side with its waters. At a point some twenty steps from the altar the river entered the base of the mountain, falling with a roar like Niagara into the abyss that led to its subterranean exit from the Valley of Teeheemen.

“The priest Walum sprinkles blood upon the waters each day, ” said Gala; “and into the river the bodies of the

victims are thrown after they are offered upon the altar to the beasts.”

' I 'HE blast of a trumpet sounded from an adjoining corridor. In a short time the royal procession of King Urlus entered the chamber.

‘ ‘ The king always attends the sacrificial ceremonies,” said Gala.

Several warriors entered shortly from the corridor through which Vim ginia and Holton had come from the prison. They were pulling and half carrying a young girl with them.

“She is to be offered to Teeheemen on the altar,” explained Gala.

“Is there no way we can save her?” Virginia pleaded, turning to Holton.

Holton shook his head.

The six maidens who 1 were carriers of the pedestals of teeheemen then took the victim. They seized her and immediately began stripping the trappings from her body. While they were so engaged, the high priest and Banrup entered. A woman, old and bent', accompanied them.

“She is the head wife of the temple,” Gala informed, indicating the bent old hag. “She has been in the temple during the reign of many high priests. She taps the bodies of the victims and draws their blood while the high priest catches it in a vessel and pours it over the images of teeheemen engraved on the face of the altar..

. The maiden who had been selected for the sacrifice was disrobed by the six young women of the temple. Still struggling, she was carried to the top of the altar by them and securely fastened. Several bands connected, to the top of the structure were strapped "around each of her limbs. Another passed just above the hips and another at a point below the breasts. A heavy band strapped about the neck held the head almost motionless.

The high priest picked up the stone bowl indicated by Gala for gathering the blood of the victim. The hag drew from her clothing a long knife with a rieedlelike point. She made an

14::


incision first in the thigh of the victim and the high priest caught the blood. The hag, as Walum was thus occupied, placed her hand over the mouth of the girl on the altar to muffle her screams.

Walum sprinkled blood from the bowl over the faces of the images of the beasts on the front of the altar. Then lie' advanced to the edge of the river where it emptied into the abyss.

“Eternal river of Teeheemen,” Walum chanted, “bear upon thy waters to the spirits of our departed brothers in the land of the hereafter the warm life blood of one of our beings. May this offering appease the wrath of the beasts of Teelieemeu and may they not destroy the lives of our warriors who go forth to hunt in the forests. ’ ’

At the conclusion of his appeal to the stream, Walum poured the remaining blood upon the water at his feet. The hag removed her hands from the victim and made a second incision in one of the arms. The third and fatal one was made in the large vein of the neck.

At the repetition of the terrible sight Virginia felt her senses leaving her. She remembered hearing Holton call to Gala to support her, and then all became darkness.

When she regained consciousness, she was back in the chamber in the prison. Gala was still with her.

“I must have fainted,” she said. “Ilow r horrible it all was! What a hideous nightmare!”

“It was terrible,” Gala admitted.

‘ ‘ Can you blame our more enlightened people for rebelling against such a horrible practise? Better to have no god than one who demands such horrible tributes! The girl they sacrificed was one of the disbelievers in the Teeheemen gods. She was sacrificed in the temple, as she preferred to meet death there rather than be taken to the woods where the animals live.”

The door of the chamber opened slowly. Banrup entered and stood before the two women.

“I come.” he stated, “as a messenger from the high priest. One more offer Walum makes to the white woman to become his wife. If she refuses she shall suffer the fate of the girl you saw offered to Teeheemen on the altar of the temple this morning. What is your answer?”

Virginia was stoical as she answered calmly, “I may die, but the hands of Walum shall never defile my body. Tell Walum that if I die he shall die at the same time.”

As Virginia gave her answer she recalled the revolver still resting in the holster attached to the belt about her waist. The high priest ’s men had taken her rifle when they seized her in the gallery of the arena but had not investigated the holster attached to her belt.

“Then the white woman must die on the altar of the temple of Teeheemen in the morning,” Banrup announced. Without further conversation he withdrew from the chamber, and once more the stone door slid across the opening.

“If I am to die in the morning,” Virginia soliloquized, “I must shoot Walum before his maidens seize me to prepare my body for sacrifice. Once my revolver is wrested from me then I am helpless, and if I must slay a man, then Walum shall be the one to die. ’ ’


AFULL moon was rising above the city of Teeheemen when Otter, Benton and Gomo, accompanied by the three spies of the followers of Duros, left the arena and walked through the streets toward the district where the palace of King Urlus and the temple of Teeheemen with its attending prison were situated.

“We must enter the temple tonight, ’ ’ said Benton. * 1 At least a couple of us should remain with the outer



guards and there learn the place where Holton and Virginia are eonlined.”

"The temple is yonder,” Gomo indicated, pointing to a high wall with several towers projecting toward the moonlit sky.

A warning was sounded by the three spies of Duros, who were in the lead. The conversation ceased, and soon the six encountered a number of the warriors of Urlus.

The latter addressed the members of the party and made inquiry as to whether they had battled against the Duros forces in the arena during the afternoon conflict.

The spies, to avoid any unnecessary conversation, denied that they had been anywhere near the arena during the time of the battle.

The warriors seemed satisfied, for they began moving on. What they apparently were searching for was someone who had taken part in the conflict following the games.

“The best side of the place to mount the wall will be the one where the sun sets,” Gomo advised. “The shadow of the wall will protect us.”

The suggestion was followed and the six men halted on the western side of the temple of Teeheemen.

The three warriors began forming a human pyramid in an effort to scale the wall. Benton was told to climb upon them, and when he had done so he could touch with his hands the lower comer of the stone cornice of the building.

With a great effort he pulled himself up and got upon the roof. Otter followed, and then came Gomo. The other three remained at the base of the wall.

The three on the roof proceeded at once to investigate their surroundings.

“Be careful, ’ ’ Gomo advised. ‘ ' Generally a guard is kept on the roof of the temple, and it is possible that

there are several keeping watch here tonight. ’ 5

Gomo’s warning was timely. The three had crouched low in the shadow of one of the towers when a gigantic warrior approached from the opposite side of the temple. The three flattened themselves on the roof.

"We must dispose of this fellow if we expect to get. into the temple from the roof, ’ ’ said Benton. ' ‘ Let him approach, and we can down him before be can give warning of our presence.”

The warrior walked toward the place where the three lay. He halted for a time near the outer edge of the wall. Gomo, as noiseless as a gigantic snake, began wriggling his way across the roof toward the spot where the guard stood.

Benton and Otter saw their big companion suddenly leap from his position and bear the guard to the roof. A muffled outcry escaped the throttled warrior; and then all was silence, for Gomo had driven his knife deep into the heart of his adversary.

Benton and Otter crawled toward Gomo.

“We must look for a window grating and get into the temple,” said Benton. »

“There is one near the body of the guard,” said Gomo, and he crawled toward the designated spot, with Otter and Benton following.

At the grating the three peered into the darkness below.

“What do you suppose i» under us?” Benton queried in a whisper.

“I would say that it is one of the outer courts of the temple used and occupied by the warriors, ’ ’ Otter suggested.

“We must get into it,” Benton continued, “while the night is here.”

Gomo began digging and cutting at the grating with his knife. After constant sawing for half an hour, one of the bars holding the main part of the grating in position was cut through. The three men, with their



combined strength, then lifted the grating and bent it back from the opening which it covered.

“Hist,” Gomo warned, and the three paused, breathless.

A warrior bearing a torch entered the chamber below and passed" through. The three on the roof got a glimpse of the room.

“It is the armor room of the temple,” said Gomo. “In there the high priest keeps his arms and extra weapons for the warriors of the temple.”

“Let us drop in there at once,” Benton suggested.

Gomo produced a strip of leather rope some twenty feet in length. He lowered the line into the chamber below /md fastened the end to the bent grating,

“The chances are that the line will not be discovered for some time,” said Benton. “We can get into the place and mingle v T ith the other warriors of the guard.”

r T'*HE three slid down the rope into the darkness of the chamber. They began groping their way about in the darkness, keeping close together.

Otter struck a match at the risk of detection on the part of anyone who might be in the armory. The place was empty with the exception of stacks of spears and other weapons. The light- of the flickering match revealed a corridor leading from the place.

“Take a spear,” Gomo advised. “Then we can better fool the warriors of the temple. Our task will be easy tonight, but tomorrow it will be difficult to avoid detection.”

The three armed themselves from the piles of weapons, and then advanced to the exit. They followed the corridor and soon detected the flickering light of a torch in the near distance. The sound of many voices reached their ears.

“One of the main rooms occupied by the warriors,” Benton speculated.

Gomo nodded in the darkness, but remained silent.

The three advanced cautiously, with Gomo leading. They passed unnoticed into the room ahead, which was occupied by some hundred warriors. Keeping together they sat down in a dark corner, where they might listen and still have a good chance of avoiding detection.

The conversation among the guards was mostly regarding the battle in the arena. Only a few of them had participated in the conflict. One of the chiefs was doing a lot of loud boasting and the attention of the three was attracted to his words.

“Had Vedos been in the battle, the forces of Urlus would have been victorious,” he boasted. “Has not Vedos been made chief of the forces of the warriors of the temple of Teeheemen because of his ability to fight?”

“But the white gods spread terror and death among the men of Urlus,” interposed a lesser chieftain near the boasting Vedos. “They used their thunder sticks, say the men who battled there, and billed with them at a. distance completely across the arena.”

Vedos was flabbergasted for a moment by the statement of his fellow; then he proceeded.

“Why did not the men of Urlus capture the two white gods? Walum and part, of our guardsmen took the white woman and the other white man. They are but flesh and blood, just like us. Tomorrow Walum will draw the blood from the veins of one of the captive maidens in the prison of Teeheemen. He will show the white man and woman how it is done. He will give the white wmman her choice. She shall either become a wife of the temple, or else Walum will draw her blood to be poured upon the sacred images of the head of teeheemen.”

Benton shuddered.

“We must save her,” he whispered to Otter, “even if it takes our own lives. Gomo must make his escape



from the temple through the armor room and tell Duros. ’ ’

“If Duros and a thousand of his men can come tomorrow night they can enter the temple, just as we have done, and overpower the guards and the men in here and rescue Virginia and Holton. Once we destroy the high priest and his close followers, then there is little danger of Holton and Virginia meeting death in the prison until we can enter and take them out,” said Benton.

■ ‘ Homo will go and report to Duros and tell him of the plan and how best to enter the temple,” the native announced in a low tone.

He rose to his feet and left the large chamber. The big fellow followed the passageway leading toward the armory. Once in the latter room he located the rope by the moonlight streaming into the place.

Gomo listened intently before beginning his climb to the outside. Then he began to draw himself hand over hand toward the upper window. A half dozen feet separated him from the opening and he paused a moment to rest. With a final effort he proceeded and gained the opening. Grasping the grating he began emerging on to the roof.

As Gomo made his exit from the arsenal room on to the roof, a half dozen waiting warriors leapt from the shadows of a tower near by.

A terrific battle ensued. Gomo threw one of his antagonists bodily over the wall to the street below. The other five leapt upon him and bore him, battling bravely, to the roof. In a short time they had bound him and carried him away to become a prisoner in the temple prison.


T) ENTON and Otter spent the night in the main room with the other warriors of the temple. When the morning came they were careful not to mingle too closely with the others,

and they engaged in no conversation. Their appearance excited no comment on the part of the warriors of the temple, for there were at least five hundred men quartered in the various outer rooms of the place, and new recruits must have been added every day to replace the ones killed in battle or in the service of the temple in the forests of the valley.

The two men tried to explore the various corridors and courts whenever opportunity would permit. A large number of warriors passed through one of the rooms, and they fell into line with them. The company marched along one of the corridors until a wall was reached. It was at this point that Benton and Otter saw two men leave the ranks.

Two panels were removed, and one man entered each opening. Then the panels were replaced.

The obstruction in the pathway of the company began slowly sliding aside, and the men passed on to one of the larger outer rooms, where they remained quartered for the remainder of the day and the following night.

“We have at least solved the mystery of the sliding stone doors, ’ ’ Benton remarked to Otter when they were seated in a corner of the room they had just entered.

“Yes,” Otter agreed. “A man in the walls, which are hollow at the doorways, pushes or pulls the doors shut and open. I believe that we might get into one of those walls and open an outside door if we just could find the location.”

Several warriors for a time excited the fears of the two that they had been detected. They glanced toward Otter and Benton a number of timfes and then passed on to the other side of the room.

“I was afraid those galoots were going to spot us,” whispered Otter.

‘ ‘ Our disguise is mighty good, though,” Benton assured him. “In another three hours the forces of Duros should be marching toward this



place — if Gomo has been successful in making liis return trip.”

Darkness began to fill the chamber again. Torches were lighted, and Otter and Benton ate with the other warriors of the place. The meal had scarcely been completed when Vedos, the commander in chief of the temple forces, entered. His announcement was a blow to the plans of Otter and Benton.

“Guards of the temple of Teeheemen,” he announced in a loud voice that echoed through the adjoining corridors, “there are spies about the temple of Teeheemen. One of them was captured last night as he attempted to leave the temple through the window in the roof of the armory. Be on your guard lest the forces of Duros be upon us. In the morning all are to march to the inner shrine of the sacrificial chamber. The high priest has proclaimed that all in his temple shall view the sacrifice of the coming morning. The white woman has refused to wive with the high priest, and in the morning he will draw her blood with his own hands and pour it upon the altar and the sacred heads of teeheemen, so that all within his temple may see that the white faces are not greater than the gods of teeheemen. ’ ’

The announcement of Vedos struck Benton with dismay.

‘ ‘ Gomo has failed, ’ ’ he said to Otter in an undertone. “We are virtually prisoners in this place, and Duros has not been notified of our plan.”

“It looks like a bad situation,” Otter admitted. “These birds will be on the watch for anything out of the way here, since they captured Gomo leaving their armory.”

“Yes, we will have to be careful. I have made up my mind to get the high priest if it’s the last thing I ever do on earth. ’ ’

“You’ll have a fat chance,” said Otter. “You haven’t even got your revolver with you.”

“We couldn’t carry them without at once attracting attention. I don’t know how good I may prove to be with a spear, but I ’m going to make it a point, if I get into the inner shrine of this place, to get close enough to the high priest to knock him for a goal.”


THE night passed, and at dawn the company ate again. The hour for marching to the sacrificial shrine arrived. The company fell into line and marched from the room. Through what seemed a quarter of a mile of corridors they tramped before the detachment finally halted before the sliding door covering the entrance into the temple. The men of the vanguard rapped on the panels at the sides. The big stone door slid aside, exposing to their view the great auditorium of the inner shrine of the temple with its sacrificial altar, and bearing to the ears of the men the roaring of the water leaving through the subterranean exit.

The company was the first to enter the inner shrine. A short time elapsed before another band of the temple warriors entered. These were followed in turn by other companies, until Benton estimated that there must be five hundred or more in the place.

Benton and Otter crowded toward the altar with the members of the company with whom they had entered. The trumpet of the king’s retinue sounded in the corridor from which the different detachments had entered the inner shrine. The royal party entered shortly, and Benton and Otter watched them closely as they came into the shrine and assumed their positions close to the altar of Teeheemen.

While the scenes in the inner shrine were being enacted, Virginia Hart and Gala in the prison were waiting the arrival of the guards who would lead them to the temple. Virginia



hoped that something might occur to delay the carrying out of the plans of Walum and that through the delay sho might yet he saved.

Her last hopes were soon doomed to disappointment. The doorway of the prison chamber opened and three warriors of the temple entered.

“The time for sacrificing to teeheemen is at hand,” one of them announced. “Will the white woman walk, or must the warriors of the high priest cany her?”

“I’ll walk,” Virginia replied bravely. * ‘ Let not the warriors of the high priest Walum lay their hands upon the white woman, or they will surely die.” '

“Gala shall witness the death of her friend on the altar,” one of the warriors announced, turning to the native girl. “Come.”

The party proceeded from the prison chamber and passed through the corridor until the main court of the prison was reached. Here they were joined by Holton, who by decree of the head of the temple had been ordered to view the death of Virginia. Holton’s arms w r ere pinioned behind his back with leather thongs, and two guards were stationed at either hand.

“I am powerless to help,” Holton spoke. “I will gladly die in your stead, Virginia. Why not marry the high priest for the time being and save yourself from this miserable death?”

“I would prefer to die than suffer such indignities,” replied the girl, and Holton was amazed at her calmness.

The command was given to move forward and the party left the main court and entered the corridor leading toward the temple. The wall of the latter place was reached and the stone door rolled aside.

In the sacrificial room Virginia viewed the ranks of warriors lined up about the altar. They gazed with intense interest at the young woman.

“The maidens of the temple will prepare the sacrifice for the altar,” Walum commanded, fixing his eyes upon Virginia. ‘ ‘ The high priest will draw the blood of the sacrifice himself. Banrup is this day named to succeed Walum when the latter dies as priest of the temple of Teeheemen. Banrup will hold the bowl and gather the blood of the sacrifice. ’ ’

The six maidens of the temple seized Virginia before she could draw her- revolver from its holster. They began removing her clothing and tore the belt with its accompanying holster from her body.

Holton strained at his bonds but realized that he was physically unable to render any aid.

“Let the white man die in the place of the white woman,” he urged, addressing Walum.

Walum gazed craftily for a moment at Holton as lie sharpened the point of the sacrificial knife.

“The white man is brave,” Walum admitted, ‘ ‘ but the gods of Teeheemen must be appeased. The white man has found favor, however, in the sight of the teeheemen. He shall be offered also on the altar instead of in the woods to the beasts themselves.”

“That must be a lot of consolation,” Otter muttered to Benton as the latter gradually made his way to where Holton was standing.

Otter little surmised what action Benton was intending to take.

The disrobing of Virginia had about been completed. The girl offered no resistance to the action of the maidens of the temple in removing her clothing, as she seemed stupefied by the fact that she was face to face with a horrible death.

“Place the sacrifice upon the altar,” Walum commanded.

The six maidens lifted Virginia and strapped her into position. Walum with his sacrificial knife advanced to the altar. Ho prepared to make the first incision in the girl’s thigh.



“Had you not insulted the gods of Teeheemen by refusing to live in the temple with their priest,” Walum spoke before making the incision, “you might have lived in happiness for thousands of suns. As it is, you now must cover the images of the gods of Teeheemen with your life blood.”

Walum drew back the sacrificial knife.

As the priest spoke, Benton stepped quickly to the rear of Holton. Otter then realized the object of his action. He saw Benton reach for Holton’s holster and draw the police positive. The arm of Walum never made its forward thrust. The report of the thirty-eight broke the deathlike stillness.

Benton’s aim was unerring. Walum fell before the altar, his brain pierced by the bullet. His life blood spattered upon the faces of the images graven upon the front of the altar. Banrup, holding the blood bowl, reached for the knife in the hands of Walum but fell with a bullet through his brain from the same gun.

Confusion reigned for a time and Otter and Benton took quick advantage of it. Otter cut Holton’s bonds and the latter rushed to the side of the altar and took the weapons of Banrup from his body. Benton rushed to the altar and cut the thongs that held Virginia to the top of the structure, and cast the robe of the tlead high priest about her. Virginia recovered her clothing and took the revolver from the belt in her holster.

The panic in the temple among the warriors quickly changed as the commanding voice of Vedos rang out.

“Overpower the white faces!” he ordered.

The three men fought off their antagonists for several minutes. Benton emptied into the charging mob the revolver he had taken from Holton, while Otter and Holton gave a good account of themselves Avith their primitive weapons. Virginia crouched, with the robe of the high priest about

her naked shoulders, and viewed with terror the scene enacted before her. In imitation of Benton she emptied her revolver into the horde rushing upon them.

By sheer force of numbers the Avarriors of the temple o\ r erpoAvered the three, men and bound them. Vedos advanced to the altar and addressed the company.

“The high priest of the temple is dead,” he said, “and Banrup the mighty has fallen. Vedos is next in command and by the laws of Teeheemen is the logical successor to the position of high priest of the temple of Teeheemen. What say the Avarriors of the temple? Let all Avho wish Vedos for high priest of Teeheemen raise their spears.”

Hundreds of spears went into the air.

“The warriors of the temple have spoken,” Vedos announced. “From noAV on Vedos shall pass judgment greater than that of the king of Teeheemen. No more will he battle at the head of his warriors. Vedos calls for vengeance for the death of Walum and Banrup. It is his order that the white faces be taken to the airless chamber and placed therein until they are dead. Let them be taken at once from the sacred shrine of Teeheemen and placed in the smother chamber of the temple. ’ ’

A score of warriors moved forward and seized the three Avhite men. Virginia gathered her clothing under her arm as the Avarriors moved tOAvard her. Still garbed in the long robe of the high priest, she was led with her three companions from the shrine along a corridor leading through intense darkness.

THE party halted after some hundred yards of the corridor had been traversed. In the darkness they could hear a door sliding aAvay. They were led into a chamber, and then the Avarriors Avithdrew. The four listened and heard the door closing upon them.



‘ ' The smother chamber,” said Benton. 4 4 Do you realize what we are up against?”

Holton answered. “A regular black hole of Calcutta on a small scale. We can live in here until the air is exhausted: then we shall all die of suffocation.”

4 * There is one consolation, if such a thing is to be found under such circumstances,” said Virginia; “and that is that I shall die with my friends. I must release you, since they neglected to bind me.”

Virginia with some difficulty released Benton, and the two in turn unbound Holton and Otter.

“If we had a light in here we might guess what we are to do,” said Benton.

“I have a dozen or more matches with me,” Otter informed them. “I carried them with me to use in the temple when I changed to this skin outfit. ’ *

“Light one and let us see where we are,” Befiton commanded.

As the small light flared up, the four got a glimpse of their surroundings. The chamber was apparently an air-tight vault hewn in the side of the granite of the mountain. In size it resembled a continuation of the corridor through which they had entered. and it receded for about a hundred feet. At a distance of fifty feet from the entrance it made an abrupt curve almost at a right angle.

Holton leaned over and picked an object from the floor as Otter's match went out.

“An old piece of a torch.” he said, passing his hands over the object. “It was probably placed in here at one time to hasten the destruction of the oxygen of the chamber for other victims of royal wrath.”

“We can use it,” said Benton.

“Doing so means a shorter time to live,” Holton argued.

“But we must use it,” Benton insisted. “We must find a place in one

of the walls to place an explosive. When I changed my costume to this disguise I slipped a couple of my patent bombs into the folds of the skin shirt. I have carried them with me ever since we left the plane in the forest. Until now I have never found a place where I was perfectly willing to try them. It is the last chance, and if you are all willing I am now ready to attempt to blast our way from this place.”

‘ * Better to die in an explosion than for want of air, ’ ’ Otter remarked.

‘ 4 This corridor has a sharp turn in it,” Benton continued. “I will place the bomb if I can find a desirable crevice. You can all get back of the turn in the chamber and be protected from the back-fire of the explosive. The action of the explosive used in the construction of the bomb is against the object of impact.”

“It is our only chance.” Holton agreed, and Virginia also expressed her willingness for Benton to make the attempt.

“Light a match. Otter,” Benton commanded, “and we will get busy, for time is precious.”

Otter lighted the partially burned torch. Benton began studying the walls.

“This has the appearance of masonry here,” Virginia called.

The men rushed to her and found that she was correct, for pieces of "mortar in several places were crumbling. They broke off a piece of the torch, and with it Benton dug persistently in an effort to remove more of the mortar and fashion a place for planting his bomb. Virginia stood at, his side and held the torch.

“It is our last chance.” she said. ‘ 4 One in a thousand. ’ '

Benton glanced at her for a moment. She had donned her clothing in the darkness before the torch had been lighted, but still carried the robe of the high priest about her shoulders. He noted how she had changed during the past few days. Her face was careTHE VALLEY OF TEEHEEMEN


worn from the terrible experiences through which she had recently passed. She noted his glance and smiled encouragingly.

“Gamest of women,” Benton soliloquized to himself, ‘ ‘ changed from a girl to a woman in a few weeks.”

Holton, glaeing about the floor of the chamber, found a round stone.

“A real find,” he called. ‘ Here’s a hammer for you, Benton.”

The latter seized the stone and beat at the masonry before him. A sense of drowziness began to seize upon the members of the party.

‘‘The air is becoming foul,” said Holton. “What we do must be done hurriedly.”

“All of you retire to a place beyond the curve of the chamber,” Benton ordered. “I must place the bomb soon.”

With a last blow from the stone he chipped a large piece from the spot at which he had been working.

“Give me the torch, Virginia,”

The girl handed him the light, and with Holton and Otter retired behind the curve in the chamber.

Benton placed the bomb in the hole he had fashioned in the masonry. He adjusted the trigger and set it to explode in thirty seconds. He released the safety and rushed back through the chamber until he was around the curve where his three companions were waiting.

For a second Benton crouched. Virginia placed her hand upon his shoulder and then a stunning report, that seemed to drive the air in the chamber through their brains crashed in. the place. Then all was blank.

Huge pieces of masonry were hurtled into the air surrounding the temple of Teeheemen. A horde of Duros’ warriors besieging the outside of the walls of the temple were thrown from their feet and scores were injured by a shower of small stones falling upon their heads. They saw a portion* of the outer walls of the temple that ran

into the base of the adjoining granite of the mountain blown to pieces, -apd a huge rent appeared in the wall.

Duros was near the place at the time and witnessed what to him was a strange phenomenon. He was quick to interpret its meaning.

“A breach!” he called to his followers. * ‘ A breach! The white gods have destroyed the Avails of the temple of Teeheemen.”

A thousand Avarriors rushed toAA 7 ard the ' breach and began making their way through the corridoi's leading about within the great structure of the temple of Teeheemen. Terrific battles ensued for possession of the various courts, and Duros and his men were victorious. Gradually they cleared the temple and captured its many chambers and shrines.


THE first thing that Benton recalled AA r as the odor of fresh air — delicious fresh air, perfumed Avith the odor of green vegetation. His mind began to function slowly, and then he began recalling the events of the past feAv days. He wondered if it were not all a dream. Finally everything came back to him. From the spot Avhere he Avas lying he could look into the distance through the corridor and see the sunshine and feel the fresh air.

“The bomb worked,” he mused to himself. “It stunned me and the others — ’ ’

He turned his head to one side and recognized Otter. The latter was still breathing and so Avas Holton.

‘ * And Virginia, ’ ’ he Avondered; “is she dead?”

He turned around and saw the face of the girl close to his OAvn on the floor of the chamber. Her stillness alarmed him.

“She must be dead,” he said.

With an effort lie raised himself on one arm and touched her brow. A noise attracted his attention. There



in the entryway created by the explosion stood a gigantic warrior. It w r as Vedos. A hideous smile played across his features.

“The white gods are dead!'’ he laughed. “All but one — and Yedos will kill him. The white gods have helped overthrow the forces of the temple of Teeheemen. Duros has captured the temple and Vedos must flee. He will go to the land of the hereafter, but before he goes he will see that the last of the white gods dies.”

Vedos raised his spear and started forward. Benton attempted to raise himself, but failed. Vedos laughed.

“The white god is weak,” he taunted.

As the laughter of the Teeheemen chieftain sounded in his ears, Benton saw a familiar figure suddenly rush behind Vedos and spring like a great cat upon his shoulders. It was Gomo. The old warrior had been released by the forces of Duros from the prison and had started in search of his friends. He had. learned while in prison that the four had been committed to the smother chamber and had come to the place to learn of their fate.

Vedos was a large man with great natural brute strength. He was many years younger than Gomo. He dropped his spear and grappled with the latter. The two fought, and by degrees Vedos began to gain the ascendancy. Benton’s strength rallied as he saw his old friend’s danger. Straining every nerve, he rose to his feet and grasped the fallen spear of Vedos. The latter hurled Gomo with a great effort to the floor, but Gomo clung to him with a powerful grip and carried Vedos down on top of him.

Benton launched forward with the spear and caught Vedos back of the ear. The blow was enough to daze the warrior for a moment. Gomo reached into Vedos’ belt and drew the chieftain ’s knife. With a powerful thrust

he drove the blade of the wea'pon into the heart of the chief of the warriors of the temple.

Gomo raised himself to his feet* Benton pointed to the rear of the smother chamber and explained to Gomo what had been done. He told the latter to get water and bring it to the three.

Gomo rushed into the temple and later returned with several warriors of the Duros forces. They carried the unconscious Otter and Holton with Virginia into one of the smaller chambers of the temple. Benton told them to bring his pack from the arena, and when it had been brought took some of the first aid material that the kit contained. He attempted to pour some of the stimulants from a ’bottle down the throats of the three.

Ott'er regained consciousness, and later Holton. Virginia alone remained as if dead. Benton bathed her face with cold water, and after a few minutes he thought that he felt the weakened pulse quicken. A half hour later she moved her lips, and her eyelids opened.

“It is I, Virginia,” he called to her as she stared vaguely at him. A light of recognition flashed into her eyes.

“We are saved,” he said. “The bomb worked.”

“Saved,” she echoed weakly. “The bomb worked.”

/ 19

BENTON and Gomo continued in charge of the chamber for the remainder of the day. The three patients began to gather strength rapidly, as Benton had done. The next morning saw them able to walk about.

“I have a headache worse than when I was a pugilistic apprentice,” said Otter. i

“Here too,” Holton echoed; “though I never tried the game, but I can imagine how it must feel if this is anything like it. ’ ’



“I’m. feeling much better,” Virginia smiled.

“What pleases me,” said Benton, “is that we can begin to see the end of our stay in this country. ’ ’

Gomo at this time entered the room, and with him was Duros. The latter extended his hand to the members of the party.

“Duros is now ruler of Teeheemen, ” he announced. “Urlus and his followers have fled from the city into the jungles. Tell us what the white gods wish, and it shall be done.”

Virginia turned to Benton.

“Tell him,” she said, “that we want to go home, and that we would like to know the way through the mountains. ’ ’

Duros shook his head.

“If I knew the exit from the valley of Teeheemen, ’ ’ he said, ‘ ‘ I would gladly tell my white friends. Duros would be glad to travel through it and view the land on the other side. Duros does not believe that where he was born is the only place where men may dwell.”

“Duros is correct,” Benton asserted. “The men.of Teeheemen should be taught that there are vast valleys and countries many times larger than the Valley of Teeheemen. The land on the other side of the seemingly insurmountable mountain peaks that enclose your valley is not a land where spirits of the dead of Teeheemen dwell but is the land where other races exist, races that in many instances worship a living yet invisible God.”

“Duros has a plan for finding the exit from the valley,” he said after thinking for a few minutes. “It has ever been reported from the temple of the high priest that the exit was in some manner connected with the temple of Teeheemen. The temple must be thoroughly investigated first.”

At this juncture, Gomo, who had remained silent during the conversation, spoke.

“If my friends will come with me,” he said, “Gomo wishes to show them what he has discovered at the place where the walls of the temple were destroyed. ’ ’

The members of the party gathered their weapons and followed after the giant native. Benton and Otter had recovered their rifles from the room where they had been left in the arena, and the rifles of Holton and Virginia had been recovered from one of the private rooms of Walum in the temple.

Gomo led the way to where the bomb placed by Benton had wrecked the temple wall. He went to a point where a large rent appeared in a portion of heavy masonry seemingly erected against the base of the granite of the mountain that rose almost perpendicularly in^p the heavens above the temple of Teeheemen. Gomo thrust his spear into the crack.

‘ ‘ Here, Gomo believes, is the beginning of the passage from the land of Teeheemen in$o the outer world.”

Benton and Otter thrust the barrels of their rifles into the darkness of the opening.

‘ ‘ There must have been a door leading into this from the rear of the smother chamber where we were placed,” Benton commented.

“Yes,” Holton admitted. “We will have to get this place opened before we can enter and explore.”

“I still have a couple of bombs in my possession,” Benton laughed. “I think we can tear this thing wide open.”

“We are willing for you to demonstrate,” Virginia laughed, “but let us get at a safe distance before you place it.” *

Virginia and the other members of the party removed themselves while



Benton found what he considered a desirable point for placing the bomb, lie set the bomb and placed the time lock at its greatest length. He left the spot and hurriedly rejoined the others.

Scarcely had he arrived where they were standing before the earth shook and a large section of the masonry and base of the mountain appeared to be tom away. When the accompanying shower of fine rocks and gravel had subsided the members of the party again advanced to the place.

“The exit from the Valley of Teeheemen, ’ ’ said Benton, as they looked into an enormous natural cavern that apparently receded into the bowels of the mountain.

Duros nodded.

“It is the way through which our first ancestors came, ’ ’ he said.

“We must make arrangements to pass through as soon as possible,” said Benton. ‘ ' Our packs yet contain enough goods for a week’s journey and we have enough firearms and ammunition to furnish food and protection. It would be better, though, before undertaking the trip through the mountain, to return * to our plane in the forest of Teelieemen and bring the other rifles and supplies that will be needed in our trip toward the coast.”

“Gomo will make the trip,” the big fellow offered, turning to Benton. “He will take a force of warriors and carry all the things.”

“I will go with you,” Holton offered. “The exact location of the plane may be difficult for you to find, since you were never there and know only the approximate position. I remember the road perfectly from the camp where we remained.”

“I would like to make the trip, too.” said Benton. “I would relish an opportunity of again shooting some of the strange beasts in the jungle of Teeheemen.”

“I, too, must make the trip,” said Virginia. ‘ ‘ I want to get the clothing I left in the plane in my two suit eases.”

“You will be better cared for in the temple of Teeheemen, ’ ’ Benton insisted. “The trip will require but a short time. We wall take enough men to bring everything from the plane. What we cannot use in mating our trip to the coast we will donate to King Duros.”

After some protesting. Virginia finally agreed to remain at the temple of Teeheemen with Gala, under the protection of a special guard which Duros <would select. The new king of Teeheemen delegated Gomo to name a hundred of the best warriors of his forces to accompany the white men on their trip.

By evening Gomo had. completed his task, and the party made preparations for an early march in the morning.

Virginia smilingly waved farewell to the expedition the next day.

“A few weeks more and I shall be going home to my people.” she said, turning to Gala.

‘ ‘ Gala will be sad, ’ ’ replied the native girl, turning her eyes toward the young white woman. * ‘ She will never see the white sister again. ’ ’

“You may, some time,” Virginia suggested. * ‘ This is an unusual world. Who knows but that some time I may desire to return to the Valley of Teeheemen?” •

“Gala will always live in that hope, ’ ’ replied the native girl.

“Let us go to the entrance of the mountain passage which Benton tore open with his bomb yesterday,” Virginia suggested.

Gala consented, and the two wan - dered to the cavern mouth.

“Let us go inside,” said Virginia, “It will be all right for just a little

distance..”:--



The two entered the opening after some difficult climbing and advanced a short distance into the gloom. Virginia stood peering into the darkness, when suddenly there was a rush of footsteps upon the rocky floor of the cavern, and before she could escape she felt herself seized by unseen hands that reached from the darkness and bore her from her feet.

Gala, who had not advanced so far into the cavern mouth, rushed for the opening and made her escape. She called loudly for help, and members of the Duros guard came running toward her. She informed them what had occurred* and the warriors rushed into the cavern. They shouted, and the answering echoes threw them into superstitious terror.

They left the place and reported the occurrence to Duros, who immediately ordered a large company of warriors with torches to assemble. An advance was started into the cavern and continued for more than half a mile. Duros in person led the vanguard of his men.


'\X7'HEN Virginia felt herself lifted * ' and carried along she made no outcry, for she realized that her strength was incapable of combating.with her unknown antagonist.

For a long time she was carried by powerful arms until she noticed the darkness in the cavern beginning to grow lighter. She glanced upward for a look at her unknown captor. The face she viewed filled her with terror. The man who was carrying her was of tremendous size and possessed the muscular development of a gorilla. He was beardless, and his skin was ashen gray. When he saw her glance at him he spoke, and the language used was that of the men of Teeheemen.

“Morop is the king of the hollow mountain,” he announced. “Morop

was the friend in secret of Walum, the high priest of Teeheemen. Tc Morop, Walum brought choice offer" ings from the land of Teeheemen. Walum is dead, for Morop has spied from the secret passage upon the white men and Duros. Morop ’s wife is old and ugly. The white woman shall become the wife of Morop.”

Virginia felt the great arms of the giant crush her body to his breast. She felt his massive lips pressed with crushing force against her own.

“In a few days,” the giant announced, “Morop of the hollow mountain will make a great feast for his new wife. ’ ’

Still carrying her, Morop proceeded along the corridors of the great cavern. The light increased constantly, until Virginia could ascertain the cause for this. The mountain into which she was being carried was a great shell, largely hollow, and at the top of the volcanic peak was an enormous opening an eighth of a mile in diameter. Through this the sunlight and fresh air penetrated to a great portion of the interior.

Morop carried Virginia to a point in the cavern where a number of rudely fashioned stone huts stood. In one of these he placed the girl, and then pushed a large stone over the opening.

To Virginia the time passed slowly in her rough prison. Several hours had passed when she was aroused by the sound of a number of warriors of Morop ’s mountain tribe assembling and chanting fierce songs. Looking through one of the cracks in the wall of her prison, she saw more than a hundred powerful, brutelike men circling about and chanting.

They were armed with great bludgeons and spears. With a final wild shout they ceased their chanting and proceeded in the direction of the Valley of Teeheemen. Duros, advancing at the head of his forces into the hollow mountain, was suddenly attacked



with terrific fury by the tribesmen of Morop.

The men of Teeheemen fought by the light of their torches, and more than one of the warriors of Morop went down with a spear thrust in his body.

“If the white men were here with their thunder sticks we could easily conquer these enemies.” Duros called to one of his lieutenants, as they fought together.

The word finally was passed along the line of the Duros followers to retire in order toward the entrance, as it would be necessary to obtain reinforcements and formulate a new plan for invading the mountain’s interior. The order was carried out and the retreat was conducted successfully. Two hours later Virginia heard the tribesmen of Morop return and begin the celebration of their victory.

The celebration continued unabated for a week, and Virginia wondered if Morop had forgotten her presence in the village. Every day a wrinkled old woman had brought coarse food to her and had never spoken. With the old woman had come a man powerful enough to remove the stone from the doorway and place it in position again.

Morop had been too busy celebrating what he considered a victory over the men of Teeheemen when the latter retreated from the mountain, to pay any attention to his fair captive. As the joy of the victory and the incessant feasting began to grow wearisome, he again thought of Virginia and went to her prison. With little effort he removed the stone and entered.

Virginia shrank from before him. He laughed boisterously, and seizing the girl he crushed her body to his chest. She fought desperately but was as helpless as a child in the grasp of the king of the mountain giants. He tore a portion of her blouse from

her shoulders and with a wild laugh pushed her from him.

“Tonight you will be the bride of Morop,” he stated. “Tonight when the sun leaves the mountain top, Morop will then come to his new woman.”

The giant again left the stone hut, closing the entrance after him with the big stone slab.

When he had gone, Virginia rushed to the opening and pushed against the stone with all of her power. Her efforts were unavailing, for the stone had been so fashioned that it fitted into a mortiselike groove in the side of the house and the floor of the cavern.

THE remainder of the day passed quickly for the girl, as the 'dread of the coming night filled her. When the gloom began to gather in the surrounding cavern depths, she again attempted to push the stone door away, but without success.

Darkness had gathered fully when she heard the stone ‘moved from the entrance. She could distinguish Morop in the light of a torch which an attendant warrior of the tribe was carrying. The giant took the torch from the other and motioned for him to retire.

Entering the hut, he fastened the torch in a niche on the side of the wall. With the muscles of his great arms knotted and moving beneath his skin, Morop stood before the girl, naked except for a trapping about the loins. His powerful physique was one to create wonderment, and Virginia thought as she shrank from before him how little chance any ordinary man could have in battle against the great brute.

‘ ‘ Morop has eome to claim his bride this night,” he muttered in low tones that seemed to come almost like distant thunder from his chest. “Morop (Continued on Page 184)

Author of “ The Tortoise-Shell Cat ”

“^">(IELO, what an enormous

■.. crystal globe, Filippo!” exV/ claimed Dottore Giuseppe del Giovine, regarding the great inverted glass bell that hung over the professor’s dissecting table. “What’s the idea of that?” he added curiously.

The professor’s black eyes rested upon the globe with the fondness of a parent. He pushed the table more centrally under the opening at the bell’s lower extremity, then pulled on a chain operating a valve at the top.

“The purpose of this globe is to win me such recognition from the world of science as no man has ever enjoyed and no man after me can ever emulate,” he responded, with a kind of grim enthusiasm.

“But how?”

The doctor was intensely interested.

“You are aware that Elena and I have long experimented on animals, to ascertain if that thing men call the ‘soul’ is at all tangible? We have now arrived at a very advanced point in our studies, so advanced that we are at a dead stop because we cannot obtain the necessary subjects for our next experiment.”

‘ ‘ One can always find mice — or cats — or monkeys,” said fhe doetor.

The professor shook his head decidedly.

“Such animals are things of the past, caro amico. We have seen the soul of a drowning mouse emerge from its body, in a spiral coil of vapor that wreathed its way out of the water to lose itself in the etheric spaces that include all life. We have watched the soul of a dying ape emerge in one long rush of fine, impalpable, smokelike cloud that wound upward to become invisible as it, too, amalgamated with the invisible forces of the universe about us.”

“I myself once saw what I believe might have been the soul of a dying man, as it departed from his body,” asseverated the doctor, musingly. “Ah, if one could but detain that fine essence of immortality, what wonders could not one work in time? What mighty secrets would perhaps be discovered!”

“You understand, then, Giuseppe mio, what I await with anxiety? The subject for the most tremendous experiment of all! It is futile for me to attempt to make it upon one of the lower animals, since they do not possess the power of reason, and tbeir souls would therefore be by far too tenuous for a successful experiment.




I have been trying for months to obtain possession of the person of some criminal condemned to death, that I might subject him to my theory as his dying breath fled, bearing with it his soul — that about which all men theorize, but which none have yet seen or conceived of as have I.”

“The idea is tremendous, Filippo. What have the authorities done about it?”

“They refuse to assist me. I cannot tell them all that I desire to do, naturally, or my rivals would try to get ahead of me. Their stupid, petty jealousy! Quanto e terribilc!”

“Exactly what do you wish to do, and how is this bell to serve you?” inquired the doctor, a puzzled series of lines drawing across his forehead.

‘ * I have observed, 'taro mio, that the vaporous soul of the lower animal is so much lighter than the ether around it that it withstands the pull of gravity and rises, swaying with whatever currents of air are in the atmosphere, always to a higher level, where it dissipates into invisibility.

“I have been trying to possess myself of a living human being whose life was useless to the world, that his death might be made of transcendent value through my scientific knowledge. I constructed this crystal bell for a wonderful and stupendous purpose. It is intended to hold the tenuous wraith of the subject of my experiment.

‘ ‘ The valve above, open at first, will permit the air to escape at the top of the bell as it becomes displaced by the ascending essence of the dying man’s soul. Then, when I pull the chain, thereby closing the valve, the soul would be retained by its own volatile nature within the bell, being unable to seek a lower level. ’ ’

“Filippo, you astound me!”

There was something more than astonishment in the doctor’s face, however, as his eyes searched the countenance of the professor sharply.

“My idea is indeed awe-inspiring, caro dottore. Your wonder is very natural, ’ ’ said the professor graciously,

“It must be trying to have to wait so long for a suitable subject for your experiment,” ventured the doctor, with a side glance.

“Ah, how I shall love and venerate that human being who furnishes me with such a subject!” cried the professor fervently.

A deep sigh followed closely upon his words. The curtain hanging before the doorway was pushed to one side, as Elena Panebianco walked slowly into the room.

“How you will gaze upon that imprisoned soul! ’ ’ cried she, with a passionate intensity that startled the doctor anew, as he turned his regard from her husband to her. “If it were a soul that loved you, how happy it would be to know that your entire thoughts were centered upon it, within the crystal bell! To see your eyes always fixed upon it, as it floated there within!”

She leaned weakly against the dissecting table, and her great eyes, dark with melancholic emotion, stared wildly out of her thin, fever-flushed face.

“Tu sai impossibile /” cried the professor. “What, tragic jealousy is yours, Elena! A jealousy of things that do not as yet exist! ’ ’

'G'LENA did not reply. She loved too deeply, too passionately, too irrevocably. And the only return her husband made was to permit her assistance in his laboratory work. Her eager mind had flown apace with his;.not. that she loved the work for itself, but that she longed to gain his approbation. To him the alluring loveliness of her splendid body was as noth -

THE REMORSE OF PROFESSOR PANEB1ANCO


ing to the beauty of the wonderful intellect that gradually unfolded in his behalf.

In private, Filippo complained to the doctor that his wife was too demonstrative. She thought nothing of distracting his attention from important experiments, with pouting lips clamoring for a kiss, and not until he had hastily brushed her lips with his would she return to her work.

"I am obliged to bribe the woman with kisses,” cried the professor, despairingly.

Elena had gone so far as to affirm to her husband that she was even jealous of his research, his experiments. That was unwise. No woman can interfere between a man and his chosen life-work. Such things are, as D ’Annunzio puts it, “piu che l’ amove” (greater than love), and prove relentless Juggernauts to those who tactlessly disregard the greater claims. •

“ife is worn out,” said Elena to the doctor. “He has flung himself into his work to such an extent that nothing exists for him but that. He studies all night. He works all day. I have to force him to* stop long enough to eat sufficient to maintain life.”

“Go on, Elena, go on! When my head swims, I tie cold wet towels about it. When my brain refuses to obey me, I concentrate with inconceivable force of will upon my goal. Oh, Giuseppe mio, my very existence is bound up in this last experiment, which, alas! I am unable to complete because the authorities will not permit me to make use of the death of some criminal — a death that must be entirely useless to the scientific world, through their blind stupidity.”

The doctor shrugged, with a gesture of his slender brown hands. His eyes sought Elena’s face. Since he had been away the Signora Panebianco had altered terribly. She looked

too delicate; she had faded visibly. Hectic roses flamed in her cheeks. Her thin hands, too, had been too cold when she touched his in greeting. Her constant cough racked her slender body. It seemed to Giuseppe del Giovine that she had become almost transparent, so slender had she become from loss of flesh. As she went from the room slowly with a gesture of helplessness, he turned to the professor.

“Your wife is a very sick woman,” he declared, abruptly.

“I suppose she must be,” Filippo responded absently. “She’s very nervous, I know. She disturbs me inexcusably with silly demands for kisses and caresses, actually weeping when she thinks I don’t see her, because I refuse to humor her foolish whims. I’ve been obliged, more than once, to drive her away with cold looks and hard words, because she has tried to coax me to stop work, insisting upon my talking with her.”

He began adjusting his apparatus with an abstracted air. It was as well that he did not see the expression of indignation and despair that flashed across the mobile face of the physician, who had long loved Elena in secret, but hopelessly, as he very well knew, because she was absolutely indifferent to anybody but her husband.

“Yes, Giuseppe, she interrupts my most particular experiments to caress me ardently, trying to bring my lips down on hers. Often I have reproved her severely for attempting to turn me aside from my life-work. The man whose intellect has driven him to enter the precincts of the great mystery cannot stop to dally with the folly of fools, and love is the greatest folly of all.”

“Blind fool, you!” muttered tho doctor under hrs breath. “Love is the very breath of life itself!”

“If Elena is to assist me in my last experiment, the greatest of all, I must



get a subject soon, for she is wasting away fast. Oh. yes, I have observed it. Death has his fingers at her throat.’'

His voice was the voice of the man of, science: there was not the slightest intonation that might have indicated other than passing interest in the unhappy Elena.

“What I am afraid of,” he resumed, “is that even a human being’s spirit will not materialize properly within the bell, unless instructed previously. And how can I expect a criminal to lend liimself voluntarily to an experiment that necessitates his death for its success? No, the fool would cling too closely to his miserable life, and might even refuse to listen when I tried to prepare and instruct him. I ought to have for my experiment someone who knows just what I want done: someone who will carry out my wishes faithfully. And where I am I to find such a person?” he finished lugubriously.

HP1IE curtains over the doorway ^ swayed to admit Elena. It was only too evident from her expression that she had heard part, if not all. of her husband’s words. There was an incomprehensible expression within those dark orbs that shrank not from the glance the professor turned upon the intruder.

“There is but one person in the whole world who could, and would, be able to carry out your ideas,” said she, deliberately.

Filippo whirled upon Dottore del Giovine, relief and joy flashing over his face. Del Giovine gave a short exclamation and took an involuntary step forward, horror written on his face. The other man turned to Elena, caught her hands in. his, and gazed down into those pellucid depths whence came the glow of a fire that burned within her heart for him alone.

“Elena! Can you really mean it? You fill me with the most intense, most vivid gratitude and admiration —. and,” he added hastily as if with an afterthought, ‘ ‘ love. ’ ’

“My life is burning low,” was her quiet reply. “If my death can profit you, it is yours for the asking — if you desire it.”

Stiff with incredulous horror, the doctor stood rooted to the spot. Elena knew what the professor desired; she was ready, willing, to serve as the subject of his experiment. It was for her a final proof of her love for him — and a test of his love for her. She realized that she alone, of all the world, knew the occult foundations of the science that would enable her to carry out successfully the other part of the experiment.

With an access of lofty emotions. Filippo Panebianeo gathered her into his arms and kissed her pallid brow. Elena’s dark eyes closed ccsta4ically undcr this caress; she felt his heart beating high, but knew, alas! it was not for her; it was with renewed hope for the success of the stupendous performance to which he had long been irrevocably pledged.

“Now I shall vindicate myself to those who have called me a visionary, a madman!” Filippo cried in triumph.

His wife clung to him, her eyes seeking his with an appeal that he deliberately refused to recognize. He was only too afraid that Elena might change her mind, might refuse what he desired more than anything else on earth: the accomplishment of his plans.

Hanging eagerly and anxiously on her reply, the professor murmured:

‘ ' When. Elena? When? ’ ’

‘ ' When you desire, my husband. The fire of my life is burning verv low.”

“This is infamous!” cried Giuseppe del Giovine, in an outburst that



shook him. from head to foot, so intense was his emotion. - “Elena, are you, too, insane? Do you realize what you are doing? Cannot you understand that Filippo is quite mad with his visions? Even if what he has dreamed could be possible, do you know that you have offered him your death? Elena, Elena, give me your life! Put yourself into my hands! I will cure you. I know that I can cure you,” he begged wildly.

The beautiful young woman looked sadly and understandingly at the impassioned doctor. She shook her head slowly. Then her eyes turned again to her husband. Giuseppe del Giovine realized that his interference was futile; Elena’s life, Elena’s death, both lay in the hands of the man she loved. And (cruel irony!) it was her death that would mean most to the man she loved.

The professor called a servant and issued hasty instructions; his rivals were to be summoned at once, to see the successful outcome of his experiment. Then he turned to his wife, elation shining from his glowing countenance.

“Help me prepare!” he commanded.

An expression of awful agony passed over Elena’s set face, but she motioned the agitated young doctor indifferently from her path, and began to set in position various instruments on the table adjacent to that under the crystal bell.

“What are you intending to do, Filippo?” demanded del Giovine, grasping the exalted dreamer authoritatively by one elbow.

Filippo shook off that restraining hand with impatience.

“Watch, and your patience will be rewarded,” was the answer, as he smiled mysteriously.

“But Elena will not die today,” said the physician, his hesitating lips forming th§ words reluctantly.

“She will die today,” affirmed the professor, still smiling.

“Dio mio! He is absolutely mad!” Del Giovine would have fled for assistance, but the horror of the situation rooted his feet to the spot. Moreover, an imperative gesture from the proud Elena held him frozen there, his questioning eyes on hers.

“When the hell rings, Elena mia, I shall free your soul from its earthly shell, on which the hold is already so frail, and let it fly upward into the crysta] bell,” murmured Filippo, more tenderly than his wife had ever heard him speak to her before.

“I did not believe you could do it,” Elena said, strangely. “I thought you really loved me! Have* you no soul yourself, my husband, that you can so relentlessly sacrifice a woman who adores you, to add fuel to the fires of your ambition?”

“Elena! No more, I beg you. You surely will not withdraw what you offered freely, of your own will?”

He turned his face from hers, lest unexpected weakness of the flesh might undo his will.

The doctor knew that Elena had risked her all on a single toss of the dice. Womanlike, she believed that Filippo would throw aside the everlasting fame which he hoped would accrue to him, instead of accepting, as he was doing, the sacrifice of herself.

With face still averted, the professor motioned his wife to place herself upon the table under the crystal bell.

She gave one dreadful, tearing sob.

“For me, life has long since lost, its value,” said she. “I think I may be happier dead!”

She mounted the table and

stretched herself upon it.

Footsteps sounded outside the door. Came a knock. The paralyzed del Giovine saw the professor catch up a glittering knife. And then Elena



turned her face upward, and gazed so earnestly at the determined and ruthless scientist that he hesitated, weakening. Del Giovine saw the beloved woman of his soul push her lips together for her husband ’s last kiss.

“Why spoil this last exalted moment? ’ ’ murmured Filippo harshly.

He dared not risk refusing her whim, for delay would be fatal to his plans; were not his rivals waiting for the work of entrance, behind the closed laboratory door? Leaning over 1 his wife, he hastily brushed his lips against hers. She flung up her arms at once and caught him to her with convulsive strength.

The young doctor heard her whisper, “Farewell, unhappy man!”

Del Giovine straggled to throw off the almost hypnotie spell that bound him.

Furious at the delay, and hearing another knock at the door* Filippo jerked himself away from that passionate embrace. The knife flashed — plunged downward —. Them he stood back, an expression of stupefied amazement on his face as he gazed enchanted at the crystal bell.

‘ ' It is her soul! Look! That pale mist of azure cloud that rises from her wounded bosom so lightly! See it sway and drift! Oh, ethereal vapor, now you are entering your crystal tomb! I can almost distinguish her features, Giuseppe. Look, how they change, almost imperceptibly, but surely, as the current of air moves out at the top of the bell to accommodate the entrance of her wraith!

“Why does she look at me so? She is pitying me — me! How can that be, seeing I am to be envied? Have I not attained in this moment to the loftiest pinnacle of my success? • My triumph is complete! No— no — I need the envy — the jealous envy — the admiration and astonishment of my fellow-workers, to complete the glory of my success!”

Del Giovine succeeded in throwing off the lethargy of horror that had bound him; a cry burst from the hitherto paralyzed vocal cords of the young doctor.

The door burst open. Into the room rushed the little group of men who were confreres and rivals in science with Professor Filippo Panebianco. Wordlessly the triumphant professor pointed to the crystal bell, all eyes following his guiding finger.

“ TTAIO!” he suddenly screamed, in agony and despair. “I forgot to close the upper valve! See — see — it is wide open! And there — there floats upon the air the last soft, wavering fringes of that wraith that was the spirit of my wife! ’ ’

He flung himself upon the lifeless form of the woman who had loved him too well, and beat at her with maddened fury.

“It is your fault, Elena! All your fault!”

Someone uttered a cry: “He has killed his poor wife!”

“Secure him, gentlemen! He has gone utterly mad!” warned the doctor, springing forward.

By sheer united strength they overcame the mad scientist, who fought against them furiously, uttering incoherent phrases as he straggled.

“Why did I stop to give her a silly kiss? Oh, if I had not stopped, I would have remembered to close the valve, and the wonder of my triumph would have remained to cover with the mantle of success what they ar>* pleased so stupidly to call my crime.

“But alas! I was always a tenderfool! Oh, if only I could have remained firm against her, when she desired that fatal kiss! I, who believed I would never experience the emotion of regret, shall suffer remorse for that weakness until I die!”

Author of “The Ghost-Eater” “With Weapons of Stone” etc.

WHEN Arkl-a opened her eyes, darkness had settled over the universe. The tough cords of reindeer sinews which hound her hands and feet eut deep into her flesh, and her wrists and ankles were raw and bleeding from her futile struggles to free herself from the bonds. The flickering light of the fire at the entrance of the cavern caused the shadows to dance on the limestone walls in a ghostly, ever-changing glow. Silhouetted against the background of the fire loomed the huge body of Zurd, his eyes fastened intently upon her.

Ugh! how she hated him! She spat between her clenched teeth, and her tortured wrists strained anew at their fastenings as her gaze rested upon him. Never would she become his mate of her own free will! Better far that she should bury the keen blade of the stag-handled stone dagger, that lay hidden away beneath her garment of doeskin, clean to the hilt in her bosom than to suffer such insult at the hands of the human monster who had stolen her from her chosen one.

Zurd, the Coward! How w T ell he was named! How different he was from Wagh, the Mighty, the man whom she loved. -She could picture

him now as she lay there, his tall, lithe, sinewy frame scarred from head to foot by the claws and teeth of the mighty beasts he fought and overpowered. He even wore a necklace made from the very teeth and claws that had inflicted those wounds, trophies she had strung together for him with her own hands and hung about his neck when it was finished. His broad head with its shock of jet-black hair, his powerful hands that could tear apart the jaws of the mighty cavelion! He was a man, indeed!

She looked again at the squat figure still watching her from the mouth of the cave. His low, receding forehead with its heavy overhanging brow, his massive jaw, his short grotesque arms and legs, reminded her of the ape people that still roamed the forests and warred against her kind.

Zurd, the Coward! He was even afraid of her, a woman! He had sprung upon her from behind, and even now that he had spirited her many miles away from her own people he dared not loose her bonds. She thought of the day to come, when Wagh should trail Zurd to his hiding place. Then lie would take him in his two hands and break him like a stick of wood across his knee.



. 11)4

Zurd rose and crossed the floor of the cavern to the helpless girl, with loping, swinging strides. He did not stand erect, his knees being slightly bent, and his similarity to a huge monkey was more marked than before.

He gave the girl a vicious prod with his foot and spoke to her. His tone was harsh and guttural, not at all like her own — low, liquid and musical. Indeed, he spoke more with his eyes and his gestures than with his lips, for language was then in its infancy and speech a power to conjure with.

“And how likes Arhl-a the fare that Zurd provides for her! A long journey and a longer sleep she has had since last she feasted upon the flesh of the reindeer.”

Arhl-a ’s sloe-black eyes flashed fire.

“And does it aid Arhl-a to digest her food to be slung upon Zurd’s back like the carcass of the shaggy cavebear and be carried thus for miles through forest and field!” she asked. “Does it improve her appetite to lie here bound by thongs of the same creature he would have her eat?”

“Then Arhl-a must needs remain hungry and Zurd will feast alone. For bound she must remain until the fire dies out of her heart and she is tamed — until she will give herself to mate with Zurd.”

“Much would Arhl-a prefer to suffer the great hunger and pass into the land of the long sleep,” retorted the girl.

Zurd, angered by her taunts, caught up a piece of driftwood from the floor of the cave and raised it high above her head. The girl steeled herself for the blow, but his mood passed, and with an imprecation he flung the stick against the wall of the rock chamber. Satisfying himself with another kick at the defenseless girl, Zurd lumbered out of the cavern and into the night.

Arhl-a knew that he would soon return. When he had gorged himself on reindeer meat he would come back

to her, and her night would be filled with nameless terror. Far rather would she spend a night in the forest and take her chances with the monsters there. She could hear some of them now as she lay with eyes half closed; the trumpeting of the elephants as they crashed their way down to the river, the howling cry of the terrible hyena, the bellow of the stag, the roar of the lion, and the growl of the cave-bear.

Her eyes scanned the length of the cavern within her range of vision in search of some way of releasing herself. The dancing light of the fire on the Avail was poor illumination, but fate must have guided her eyes, for they lighted on a ragged point of rock that jutted out a. few inches above the floor of the cave.

If only she could reach it before Zurd returned. Should he come back and discover her....

Slowly she began her torturing journey toward the jagged rock that must serve as her liberator. At every move the cords cut deeper and deeper into her tender flesh. On, and still on, she rolled; it seemed miles instead of feet, hours instead of seconds. One more twist and she Avould be within reach of the broken, stone. Could she make it? Every muscle, every nerve cried out in protest against the attempt. She gritted her teeth and clenched her fists so tightly that the nails sank deep into her palms. With a supreme effort she made the last turn and paused for the moment, exhausted.

The thought of Zurd roused her from her lethargy. If he discovered her....

She bent every energy to the tedious task of sawing through the tough sinews that bound her, until at last they gave Avay and her Avrists were free. The stone dagger in her bosom made short work of her other bonds and Arhl-a gave an articulate sigh of relief when the last cord dropped 1 aAvay.

ARHL-A' OF THE CAVES

1G5

>)

THE sun yet glowed, a flaming ball of red in the western sky, when Wagh, the Mighty, pushed his way out of the great forest and came in sight of the huge cliffs which had been the dwelling ground of his people. The season was growing cold again, and the larger part of the dwellers had already started on their migratory march to where the warmer breezes would blow upon them. But Wagh, together with a few of the hardier ones, had chosen to linger in the old haunts for a while. Later, by forced marches, they could easily overtake the slower moving older ones and join them in their new camping ground.

The other hunters had not returned from the jungle, and the place was well-nigh deserted. He picked his way over the rocks to his cave and entered, letting his burden of pelts slip from his broad back to the floor. Wagh had a strange premonition that something was wrong; that was why he had left the chase and come home earlier than usual. His keen eyes swept the surroundings in search of that which might either confirm or allay his suspicions. He wondered where Arhl-a could be. Most likely she was with We-na, mate of Ze-ka, the Flint-cutter. He did not see what these two women could find to talk about. They were always together. Still, he reflected, he was early. Arhl-a would return in due time.

The patter of sandaled feet fell upon his ear. Ah! But it was not Arhl-a who burst with the speed of the wind into his cave. It was We-na, breathless from v the haste with which she had traveled. *

“Where is Arhl-a?”

“I have not seen her since early morn. I had thought to find her with you in the cave of Ze-ka. See!”

The girl thrust her hand into her bosom and displayed a broad fillet of tiger hide.

Wagh’s eyes dilated as they recognized the object the girl held. He had fashioned this fillet himself for Arhl-a to wear. His strong hand closed about the wrist of the girl in a viselike grip and tightened until she winced beneath the pressure.

“Speak, girl! Where found We-na the head-dress made for the raven locks of Arhl-a?”

“At the edge of the great jungle, where Wagh spends his day hunting the woolly mammoth and the sabertooth tiger who preys upon his people and robs the land of the food that they desire. • I thought it might be that Arhl-a had joined Wagh in the chase today, but when I saw him return alone I hastened to show him that which I had found.”

“We-na did well to come at once to Wagh with her discovery. Come, take him to the place where she found the fillet of tiger-liide that he might seek for trace of what has become of Arhl-a, woman of Wagh.”

“Wait. First shall I take the news ■ to Ze-ka, that he may ask the hunters about her as they return. Then shall I show you where I found the ornament. ’ ’

At last they set out for the edge of the great jungle, and the girl led Wagh to a spot not far from where he had entered the great forest earlier in the day and indicated the spot where she had found the fillet of Ahrl-a. There in the earth Wagh read the story of the struggle that had occurred. It was all as plain to him as the pictures that decorated the walls of his cave. He saw that it was no jungle creature to whom she had fallen a victim; it was a two-footed beast that had spirited her away. But who had dared to make off with Arhl-a, woman of Wagh, the Mighty? He would track him to his hiding place and beat out his brains against the side of his own habitation!

It was too late, now, to follow the trail, for already the shades of night



were falling. He would return to his people and there he would count noses. Soon he would know who had stolen his mate away. Then, on the morrow, he would set out upon the trail, and by the antlers of the great reindeer, one of the two would not return alive!

The hunters were nearly all returned, and already the circle fires had been lighted when Wagh reached the camping grounds. The others straggled in by ones and twos until only one remained unaccounted for — Zurd. the Coward.


WAGH awoke in the morning as the first rays of the sun were streaking the eastern sky. He selected from the pile of crude weapons in the corner of the cave his favorite lance, the head carved with a likeness of the cave-bear that it might be more effective against him; a stone hatchet which had put the finishing touches to more than one four-footed antagonist; and a long, sharp dagger of stone, with an edge as keen as the finest tempered steel.

Thus armed, the man set out upon his quest. With these simple weapons he would face all the dangers that beset him and make his way to where he knew his Arhl-a must be waiting* an unwilling captive at the mercy of Zurd. With unerring accuracy he read the trail of the fleeing man. Every broken twig or crushed blade of grass bore a message for this man who had learned to interpret their significance. On, and still on, he followed the path so plainly ma rked for Ids eyes. At times, when the spoor would not be so clear, he would go along on all fours, his nose close to the ground, sniffing, more like one of the animals of the jungle than man.

He wondered how far the two had gone. He knew that their progress would be slow, for Zurd would be hampered with the burden of the girl

—and he knew that Arhl-a would never have gone with him of her own volition.

Well on toward midday he stopped short in his tracks and listened, for the wind had brought to' his quivering nostrils the scent of the reindeer, and Wagh realized that he was hungry. Cautiously, silently, he made his way in the direction where he knew the herd must be grazing. He pushed on through the underbrush without making a sound, for man could, if he chose, move more silently than any of the animals that roamed at the edge of a clearing.

The herd were making their way directly toward his hiding place. It could not have been better if he had planned it out for himself. He swung into the overhanging branches of a big tree and waited, until the last of the reindeer passed beneath the tree. Then, swinging lightly from the branches, he dropped to the back of the hindmost animal and plunged his lance clean to the shaft into its shoulder.

The startled animal plunged into the underbrush with its human freight, and Wagh clung to its spreading antlers for support, lest he be brushed off by the branch of some tree and crushed by the flying feet of his wounded steed. The now frantic animal crashed heedlessly on, trying in vain to shake off its unaccustomed burden. Of a sudden, one foot stepped into a deep hole, and the reindeer stumbled and tottered to its knees. With the agility of a monkey, Wagh sprang clean over its antlers, and before the frightened animal could regain its feet he sank his stone dagger deep into its heart. A last convulsive effort to rise, and the reindeer collapsed and rolled over upon its side, dead!

Regaining his weapons, Wagh proceeded to strip the animal of its pelt. Next he gathered a head of dry leaves and twigs. With a sharp bit of hard



wood and a hollowed-out piece of soft wood lie proceeded to build a fire, twirling the hardwood stick upon the other until a spark caught the dryleaves. He nursed the tiny blaze with care, until he had a fire of the size he desired. Then, cutting a large, juicy steak from the animal he had killed, he proceeded to cook his dinner. Retracing his steps, Wagh ■finally picked up the trail he had left and once more set out upon his way.

All this had taken time, and it was not until late afternoon when Wagh at last came in sight of the cold, barren, deserted cliffs whither Zurd had borne the helpless girl. Every nerve tense, every sense alert, he drew nearer and nearer to the cave where the single trail led. No sound broke the stillness, save the lapping of the seawaves upon the beach at the foot of the cliffs. Boldly he entered the casern, before which the fire had smoldered and died. And there, his body already grown cold, he found Zurd, with Arhl-a ’s stag-handled stone dagger shaft-deep between his shoulderblades.

But where was Arhl-a?

Once more he took up the trail, harder to follow now, with darkness coming on. Back into the forest Wagh followed the spoor of the woman he loved. Already the moon had risen and flooded the scene with silvery rays. Wagh was desperate. He must find Arhl-a before the animals of the night came out to roam the jungle, else all that he might find would be her bones, picked clean!

Suddenly, upon the somber stillness of the night, rang out a piercing cry — the cry of a human voice, a cry fraught with horror and distress. And in that cry Wagh l'ecognized the voice of Arhl-a!


ARHL-A, crouching in the shadows, heard the heavy step of Zurd as he approached the cave. Zurd, his

belly filled with the savory meat of the reindeer, had turned his thoughts to the helpless girl he had left bound in the far corner of the cavern. Suiting action to impulse, he made his way to where he had left her. The food had warmed his body and the blood flowed hot through his veins; he yearned for the solace that only the soft warm body of the girl could give him. His eyes agleam with lust, he entered the cave.

Out of the darkness, Arhl-a sprang.

Zurd reeled and lurched forward unsteadily under the impact of the unexpected attack. He tried to shake off the body that clung to him with a grip of steel. He swore a mighty oath, invoking the anger of the gods upon this girl who dared defy him. He felt a sudden hiting, stinging sensation as the blade of the girl’s dagger was buried deep into his back. His body burned with a feverish fire. Again the stone knife bit his flesh. He could feel the life-blood gushing from the open wound. He staggered drunkenly and pitched face down upon the floor of the cave. The cavern echoed hideously with his mighty groans. At length they grew weaker, until finally they ceased altogether....

Arhl-a breathed a great sigh of relief as the silence of death fell over the cave. Heath, sudden and sure, held no terrors for this girl of the cave and the wilderness. It was the living whom she fought and feared. Exhausted with the strenuous experiences of the day and stopping only long enough to replenish the fire, that, she might be protected from the chance prowler from the jungle near by, she curled up into a snug warm ball and slept — a long, deep, refreshing, dreamless sleep.

When Arhl-a awoke the sun was high in the heavens. With only a passing glance at her lifeless companion she made her way down the side of the cliff to where the sea-waves gently lapped the sun-kissed shore.



Then, letting her single garment of doeskin slip from her white shoulders, she stepped out into the water and bathed, the little waves playing over her lithe form. At last, tired of her sport, she stretched at full length on the sandy beach and basked in the glorious warmth of the sun.

* Donning her doeskin wrap once more, she sought out the remains of the reindeer flesh upon which Zurd had feasted the night before and roasted some of it for her breakfast in the hot embers of the dying fire. Her bodily needs satisfied, Arhl-a became possessed of a desire to be on her way back to her people, and Wagh. But first she must have weapons. She re-entered the cave and stripped the dead body of the weapons it wore, leaving her stag-handled dagger in the body that Wagh. should he be trailing them, might know that she was safe. Thus armed, she sealed the barren walls of the cliff and plunged into the heart of the great forest.

All through the long day she plunged on, ever on. But Arhl-a possessed not the ability of Wagh to follow unerringly the vaguely defined trail through the jungle. It was not until twilight closed about her that the girl realized that she was last. Had she but known, she had traveled in a gigantic circle and was but a short distance from the cave where she had spent the night before, with the silent form of Zurd her sole companion.

The fast gathering darkness brought with it a disquieting.silence — the silence that always preceded the voices of the creatures of the night. Above the tree-tops the white moon shone bright in a clear sky and Arhl-a caught an occasional glimpse of a tiny, twinkling star. '

Intent upon finding refuge for the long night ahead, the girl did not see the small, beadlike eyes that peered

at her from the underbrush, nor did she hear the catlike tread of the creature that trailed her as she pushed on. She did not know that long, hairy arms reached out to encircle her, until she felt a gigantic paw close upon her shoulder and she wheeled to meet her new-found foe. But when she saw the wicked eyes that burned into her own, the low, slavering jaw and the hairy, misshapen body of the great ape that held her in its grasp, then horror overwhelmed her and she screamed — a shrill, piercing, bloodcurdling scream.

In answer, a mighty form came crashing through the forest and stood before them, and Arhl-a ’s heart leapt, with joy as she beheld the one who had come to her aid — Wagh, her mate and her protector.

• With a harsh, guttural cry the ape flung the girl from him and turned to give battle to his more formidable antagonist. Another moment and the two were locked in a mighty, deathlike embrace, with only the wide-eyed girl to witness the battle supreme for which she was to be the prize.

QILENTLY they fought, the still- ^ ness broken only by the snapping of dry twigs beneath their feet or the dull thud as the huge bodies crashed against the trunks of the massive trees.

At last Wagh gained the opening he sought and brought his stone ax down with terrific force upon the head of the beast, clearing it from skull to chin between the eyes. The hairy bulk tottered for a brief instant and toppled in an inert mass at the feet of the victorious man.

And there in the heart of the jungle, with only the moon looking on, the girl found her place in the outstretched anus of the man and the evening breeze softly kissed the reunited pair.

Author of “ Dagon “The Rats in the If alls,” etc.

“Effieiimt daemones, ut quae non sunt, sic tamen quasi sint, conspicienda hominibus exhibeant.” — Lactantius.

IWAS far from home, and the spell of the eastern sea was upon me. In the twilight I heard it pounding on the rocks, and I knew it lay just over the hill where the twisting willows writhed against the clearing sky and the first stars of evening. And because my fathers had called me to the old town beyond, I pushed on through the shallow, new-fallen snow along the road that soared lonely up to where Aldebaran twinkled among the trees; on toward the very ancient town I had never seen but often dreamed of.

It was the Yuletide. which men call Christmas, though they know in their hearts it is older than Bethlehem and Babylon, older than Memphis and mankind. It was the Yuletide, and I had come at last to the ancient sea town where my people had dwelt and kept festival in the elder time when festival was forbidden; where also they had commanded their sons to keep festival once every century, that the memory of primal secrets might not be forgotten. Mine were an old people, old even when this land was

settled three hundred years before. And they were strange, because they had come as dark, furtive folk from opiate southern gardens of orchids, and spoken another tongue before they learnt the tongue of the blueeyed fishers. And now they were scattered, and shared only the' rituals of mysteries that none living could understand. I was the only one who came back that night to the old fishing town as legend bade, for only the poor and the lonely remember.

Then beyond the hill’s crest I saw Kingsport outspread frostily in the gloaming; snowy Kingsport with its ancient vanes and steeples, ridgepoles and chimneypots, wharves and small bridges, willow trees and graveyards; endless labyrinths of steep, narrow, crooked streets, and dizzy church - crowned central peak that time durst, not touch; ceaseless mazes of colonial houses piled and scattered at all angles and levels like a child’s disordered blocks; antiquity hovering on gray wings over winter-whitened gables and gambrel roofs. And against the rotting wharves the sea pounded; the secretive, immemorial sea out of which the people had come in the elder time.



Beside the road at its crest a still higher summit rose, bleak and windswept, and I saw that it was a burying-ground where black gravestones stuck ghoulishly through the snow like the decayed fingernails of a gigantic corpse. The printless road was very lonely, and sometimes I thought I heard a distant horrible creaking as of a gibbet in the wind. They had hanged four kinsmen of mine for witchcraft in 1692, but I did not know just where.

As the road wound down the seaward slope I listened for the merry sounds of a village at evening, but did not hear them. Then I thought of the season, and felt that these old Puritan folk might well have Christmas customs strange to me, and fun of silent hearthside prayer. So after that I did not listen for merriment or look for wayfarers, but kept on down past the hushed, lighted farmhouses and shadowy stone walls to where the signs of ancient shops and sea taverns creaked in the salt breeze, and the grotesque knockers of pillared doorways glistened along deserted, unpaved lanes in the light of little, curtained windows.

I had seen maps of the town, and knew where to find the home of my people. It was told that I should be known and welcomed, for village legend lives long; so I hastened through Back Street to Circle Court, and across the fresh snow on the one full flagstone pavement in the town, to where Green Lane leads off behind the Market House. I was glad I had chosen to walk. The white village had seemed very beautiful from the hill; and now I was eager to knock at the door of my people, the seventh house on the left in Green Lane, with an ancient peaked roof and jutting second story, all built before 1650.

There ivere lights inside the house when I came upon it, and I saw from the diamond window-panes that it must have been kept very close to its

antique state. The upper part overhung the narrow, grass-grown street and nearly met the overhanging part of the house opposite, so that I was almost in a tunnel, with the low stone doorstep wholly free from snow. There was no sidewalk, but many houses had high doors reached by double flights of steps with iron railings. It was an odd scene, and because I was strange to New England I had never known its like before. Though it pleased me, I would have relished it better if there had been footprints in the snow, and people in the streets, and a few windows without drawn curtains.

WHEN I sounded the archaic iron knocker I was half afraid. Some fear had been gathering in me, perhaps because of the strangeness of my heritage, and the bleakness of the evening, and the queerness of the silence in that aged town of curious customs. And when my knock was answered I was fully afraid, because I had not heard any footsteps before the door creaked open. But I was not afraid long, for the gowned, slippered old man in the doorway had a bland face that reassured me; and though he made signs that he was dumb, he wrote a quaint and ancient welcome with the stylus and wax tablet he carried.

He beckoned me into a low, candlelit room with massive exposed rafters and dark, stiff, sparse furniture of the seventeenth century. The past was vivid there, for not an attribute was missing. There was a cavernous fireplace and a spinning-wheel at which a bent old woman in loose wrapper and deep poke-bonnet sat back toward me, silently spinning despite the festive season. An infinite dampness seemed upon the place, and I marveled that no fire should be blazing. The high-backed’ settle faced the row of curtained windows at the left, and seemed to be occupied, though I was


171.

not sure. I did not like everything about what I saw, and felt again the fear I had had. This fear grew stronger from what had before lessened it, for the more I looked at the old man’s bland face, the more its very blandness terrified me. The eyes never moved, and the skin was too like wax. Finally I was sure it was not a face at all, but a fiendishly cunning mask. But the flabby hands, curiously gloved, wrote genially on the tablet and told me I must wait a while before I could be led to the place of festival.

Pointing to a chair, table, and pile of books, the old man now left, the room; and when I sat down to* read I saw that the books were hoary and moldy, and that they included old Morryster’s wild “Marvells of Science,” the terrible “Saducismus Triumphatus” of Joseph GUanvil, published in 1681, the shocking “Daemonolatreia” of Remigius, printed in 1595 at Lyons, and ^vorst of all, the unmentionable * ‘ Necronomicon ’ ’ of the mad Arab Abdul Alhazred, in Olaus Wormius’ forbidden Latin translation: a book which I had never seen, but of which I had heard monstrous things whispered. No one spoke to me, but I could hear the creaking of signs in the wind outside, and the whir of the wheel as the bonneted old woman continued her silent spinning, spinning.

I thought the room and the books and the people very morbid and disquieting, but because an old tradition of my father’s had summoned me to strange feastings, I resolved to expect queer things. So I tried to read, and soon became tremblingly absorbed by something I found in that accursed “Necronomicon”; a. thought and §, legend too hideous for sanity or consciousness. But I disliked it when I fancied I heard the closing of one of the windows that the settle faced, as if it had been stealthily opened. It had seemed to follow a whirring that

was not of the old woman's spinningwheel. This was not much, though, for the old woman was spinning very hard, and the aged clock had been striking. After that I lost the feeling that there were persons on the settle, and was reading intently and shudderingly when the old man came back booted and dressed in a loose antique costume, and sat down on that very bench, so that I could not see him. It was certainly nervous waiting, and the blasphemous book in my hands made it doubly so. When 11 o’clock struck, however, the old man stood up, glided to a massive carved chest in a corner, and got two hooded cloaks, one of which he donned, and the other of which he draped round the old woman, who was ceasing her monotonous’ spinning. Then they both started for i, the outer door; the woman lamely creeping, and the old man, after picking up the very book I had been reading, beckoning me as he drew his hood over that unmoving face or mask.

We went out into the moonless and tortuous network of that incredibly ancient town; went out as- the lights in the curtained windows disappeared one by one, and the Dog Star leered at the throng of cowled, cloaked figures that poured silently from every doorway and formed monstrous processions up this street and that, past the creaking signs and antediluvian gables, the thatched roofs and the diamond-paned windows* threading precipitous lanes where decaying houses overlapped and crumbled together, gliding across open courts and churchyards where the bobbing lanthems made eldritch drunken constellations.

Amid these hushed throngs I followed my voiceless guides; jostled by elbows that seemed preternaturally soft, and pressed by chests and stomachs that seemed abnormally pulpy; but seeing never a face and hearing never a word. Up, up, up, the eery columns slithered, and I saw that all



the travelers were converging as they flowed near a sort of focus of crazy alleys at the top of a high hill in the center of the town, where perched a great white church. I had seen it from the road’s crest when I looked at Kingsport in the new dusk, and it had made me shiver because Aldebaran had seemed to balance itself a moment on the ghostly spire.

There was an open space around the church; partly a churchyard with spectral shafts, and partly a halfpaved square swept nearly bare of snow by the wind, and lined with unwholesomely archaic houses having peaked roofs and overhanging gables. Death-fires danced over the tombs, revealing gruesome vistas, though queerly failing to cast any shadows. Past the churchyard, where there were no houses, I could see over the hill’s summit and watch the glimmer of stars on the harbor, though the town was invisible in the dark. Only once in a while a lanthern bobbed horribly through serpentine alleys on its way to overtake the throng that was now slipping speechlessly into the church.

I waited till the crowd had oozed into the black doorway, and till all the stragglers had followed. The old man was pulling at my sleeve, but I was determined to be the last. Then finally I went, the sinister man and the old spinning woman before me. Crossing the threshold into that.swarming temple of unknown darkness, I turned once to look at the outside world as the churchyard phosphorescence cast a sickly glow on the hilltop pavement. And as I did so I shuddered. For though the wind had not left much snow, a few patches did remain on the path near the door; and in that fleeting backward look it seemed to my troubled eye that they bore no mark of passing feet, not even mine.

The church was scarce lighted by all the lantherns that had entered it, for most of the throng had already

vanished. They had streamed up the aisle between the high white pews to the trapdoor of the vaults which yawned loathsomely open just before the pulpit, and were now squirming noiselessly in. I followed dumbly down the footworn steps and into the dank, suffocating crypt. The tail of that sinuous line of night-marchers seemed very horrible, and as I saw them wriggling into a venerable tomb, they seemed more horrible still. Then I noticed that the tomb ’s floor had an aperture down which the throng was sliding, and in a moment we were all descending an ominous staircase of rough-hewn stone; a narrow spiral staircase damp and peculiarly odorous, that wound endlessly down into the bowels of the hill, past monotonous walls of dripping stone blocks and crumbling mortar. It was a silent, shocking descent, and I observed after a horrible interval that the walls and steps were changing in nature, as if chiseled out of the solid rock. What mainly troubled me was that the myriad footfalls made no sound and set up no echoes. After more eons of descent I saw some side passages or burrows leading from unknown*recesses of blackness to this shaft of nighted- mystery. Soon they became excessively numerous, like impious catacombs of nameless menace; and their pungent odor of decay grew quite unbearable. I knew we must have passed down through the mountain and beneath the earth of Kingsport itself, and I shivered that a town should be so aged and maggoty with subterraneous evil.

Then I saw the lurid shimmering of pale light, and heard the insidious lapping of sunless waters. Again I shivered, for I did not like the things that the night had brought, and wished bitterly that no forefather had summoned me to this primal rite. As the steps and the passage grew broader, I heard another sound, the thin, whining mockery of a feeble



flute; and suddenly there spread out before me the boundless vista of an inner world— a vast fungous shore litten by a belching column of sick greenish flame and washed by a wide oily river that flowed from abysses frightful and unsuspected to join the blackest gulfs of immemorial ocean.

P^AINTINCr and gasping, I looked at that unhallowed Erebus of titan toadstools, leprous fire and slimy water, and saw the cloaked throngs forming a semicircle around the blazing pillar. It was the Yule-rite, older than man and fated to -survive him; the primal rite of the solstice and of spring’s promise beyond the snows; the rite of fire and evergreen, light and music. And in that Stygian grotto I saw them do the rite, and adore the sick pillar of flame, and throw into the water handfuls gouged out of the viscous vegetation which glittered green in the chlorotic glare. I saw this, and I saw something amorphously squatted far away from the light, piping noisomely on a flute; and as the thing piped I thought I heard noxious muffled flutterings in the fetid darkness where I could not see. But what frightened me most was that flaming column; spouting volcanically from depths profound and inconceivable, casting no shadows as healthy flame should, and coating the nitrous stone above with a nasty, venomous verdigris. For in all that seething combustion no warmth lay, but only the clamminess of death and corruption.

The man who had brought me now squirmed to a point "directly beside the hideous flame, and made stiff ceremonial motions to the semicircle he faced. At certain stages of the ritual they did groveling obeisance, especially when he held above his head that abhorrent “Necronomicon” he had taken with him; and I shared all the obeisances because I had been summoned to this festival by the writings

of my forefathers. Then the old man made a signal to the half-seen fluteplayer in the darkness, which player thereupon changed its feeble drone to a scarce louder drone in another key; precipitating as it did so a horror unthinkable and unexpected. At this horror I sank nearly to the lichened earth, transfixed with a dread not of this nor any world, but only of the mad spaces between the stars.

Out of the unimaginable blackness beyond the gangrenous glare of that cold flame, out of the tartarean leagues through which that oily river rolled uncanny, unheard, and unsuspected, there flopped rhythmically a horde of tame, trained, hybrid winged things that no sound eye could ever wholly grasp, or sound brain ever wholly remember. They were not altogether crows, nor moles, nor buzzards, nor ants, nor vampire bats, nor decomposed human beings, but something I cannot and must not recall. They flopped limply along, half with their webbed feet and half with their membranous wings; and as they reached the throng of celebrants the cowled figures seized and mounted them, and rode off one by one along the reaches of that unlighted river, into pits and galleries of panic where poison springs feed frightful and undiscoverable cataracts.

The old spinning woman had gone with the throng, and the old man remained only because I had refused when he motioned me to seize an animal and ride like the rest. I saw when I staggered to my feet that the amorphous flute-player had rolled oixt of sight, but that two of the beasts were patiently standing by. As I hung back, the old man produced his stylus and tablet and wrote that he was the true deputy of my fathers who had founded the Yule worship in this ancient place; that it had been decreed I should come back; and that the most secret mysteries were yet to be performed. He wrote this in a very



ancient hand, and when 1 still hesitated he pulled from his loose robe a seal ring and a watch, both with my family arms, to prove that he was what he said. But it was a hideous proof, because I knew from old papers that that watch had been buried with my great - great - great - great - grandfather in 1698.

Presently the old man drew back his hood and pointed to the family resemblance in his face, but I only shuddered, because I was sure that the face was mei'ely a devilish waxen mask. The flopping animals were now scratching restlessly at the lichens, and I saw that the old man was nearly as restless himself. When one of the things began to waddle and edge away, he turned quickly to stop it; so that the suddenness of his motion dislodged the waxen mask from what should have been his head. And then, because that nightmare’s position barred me from the stone staircase down which we had come, I flung myself into 1 the oily underground river that bubbled somewhere to the caves of the sea; flung myself into that putrescent juice of earth’s inner horrors before the madness of my screams could bring down upon me all the charnel legions these pest-gulfs might conceal.

A T THE hospital they told me I had been found half-frozen in Kingsport Harbor at dawn, clinging to the drifting spar that accident sent to save me. They told me I had taken the wrong fork of the hill road the night before, and fallen over the cliffs at Orange Point — a thing they deducted from prints found in the snow. There was nothing I could say, because everything was wrong. Everything was wrong, with the broad window showing a sea of roofs in which only about one in five was ancient, and the sound of trolleys and motors in the streets below. They insisted

that this was Kingsport, and I could not deny it.

When I went delirious at hearing that the hospital stood near the old churchyard on Central Hill, they sent me to St. Mary’s Hospital in Arkham, where I could have better care. I liked it there, for the doctors were broadminded, and even lent me their influence in obtaining the carefully sheltered copy of Alhazred’s objectionable “Necronomieon” from the library of Miskatonie University. They said something about a “psychosis,” and agreed that I had better get my harassing obsessions off my mind.

So I read again that hideous chapter, and shuddered doubly because it was indeed not new to me. I had seen it before, let footprints tell what they might; and where it was I had seen it were best forgotten. There was no one — in waking hours — who could remind me of it; but my dreams are filled with terror, because of phrases I dare not quote. I dare quote only one paragraph, put into such English as I can make from the awkward Low Latin.

“The nethermost caverns,” wrote the mad Arab, “are not for the fathoming of eyes that see; for their marvels are strange and terrific. Cursed the ground where dead thoughts live new and oddly bodied, and evil the mind that is held by no head. Wisely did Ibn Schacabac say that happy is the tomb where no wizard hath lain, and happy the town at night whose wizards are all in ashes. For it is of old rumor that, the soul of the devilbought hastes not from his charnel clay, but fats and instructs the very worm that gnaws; till out of corruption horrid life springs, and the dull scavengers of earth wax crafty to vex it and swell monstrous to plague it. Great holes secretly are digged where earth’s pores ought to suffice, and things have learnt to walk that ought to crawl. ’ *

THE only man who knew the story was Carson, and he never told it. He was as hard-headed a man as you could find in the country and his pride was that he wasn ’t superstitious.

When Sellars called on him that evening he left the monstrous tale in Carson’s breast. True, he repudiated, ten minutes later, the confession made, evidently, in a moment of weakness.

“You can’t go back on your statements like that. Sellars,” the physician said quietly. “Even if the hop has so undennined your system that it ’s but a matter of weeks, you ’re not insane. You are as sane as I am, and you’re lying to me when you try to get out of it like that.”

“Swear to me that you’ll never tell — never tell. All made up of whole cloth — spun you a yarn — don’t knowwhy. All rot, Carson, old man. Promise — to forget it! ”

“I would promise, and welcome.” said the other slowly, “if it weren’t for the victims. The child, man! You know, Sellars, your ease is serious. If you die with that on your soul! I guess I ’m old-fashioned and all that; but the child, apart from the — the other thing — abandoned, as you say, in the woods! See a priest— -let me call in Father Quinn. My God, Sellars!”

Sellars laughed, a trifle uneasily The doctor’s blue eyes widened with horror.

“You won’t see a priest, Sellars?” he pleaded.

“No, damn the priest — damn you, if you believe the rot I gave you a while back. I made it up — always was a bit theatrical — I lied — ’ ’

“You lie now, Sellars, you know that”; and the keen eyes bored to tho shrunken soul rattling in the frail body before him. “Stop lying, man You are about to die; it’s no use blinking the fact. Common decency, even if you have no respect for religion — ”

With an oath, the other turned on his heel and slammed the door behind him.

YES, Martha was dead and gone.

There was no doubt about that. Yet, as Sellars glanced uneasily about the one little room comprizing the old ramshackle cabin in the midst of the marsh, he had an eery sensation that she was. present. He had a feeling that she was trying to impress her presence on him, that she was vainly trying to communicate with him.

This was the third day that he had passed alone in the old cabin since Martha died. But three days — they seemed like years. Like years it seemed since he had returned in his




skiff from Vallejo to his home above the inlet and Martha, noting his drunken state, had started the argument.

It had degenerated into the usual squabble, for both were of uncertain temper. Martha, womanlike, seeing that she was being worsted in the argument, had pushed him through the door of the cabin, causing him to land full-length in the sticky mud outside.

Then he had risen in a towering rage and, grabbing a heavy iron bar, had dealt a terrific blow at his wife’s head, expecting to see her dodge as on many similar occasions. But she had slipped and lost her balance, and with, a crunching, sickening sound the bar had descended on her unprotected head. He could see her now, lying where she had dropped without a cry or groan.

Horrified and frightened, he had poured cold water on her upturned face, had slapped and chafed her wrists. Finally, in a frenzy of terror, he had placed his hand over her heart. There was no movement, not even a flutter. Martha was dead, her head crushed in by the frightful blow.

He had sought the hypodermic needle again, and his fears had fallen from him. He had picked up the baby and taken it to the outskirts of Suisun. Someone would find it and give it a home.

But as the drug gradually wore off, he had fallen a prey to remorse and fear, and at last had fled to Carson for comfort and counsel. And, God pity him, he had not had the courage to go through with it!

Sellars straightened up and glanced aro.und. To his fervid imagination, a thousand pairs of eyes seemed watching him. The leaves on the trees and bushes near by, rustling in the wind, sounded like accusing voices. A crane rose from the swamp with a mighty flapping of wings and a shrill, harsh cry, causing Sellars ’ flesh to creep and his hair to stand on end. What if the

crane had seen, and was now trying to atti’act man’s attention to the murderous deed?

Martha ’s body had been disposed of in a shallow grave quickly dug in the soft, muddy ground. It was covered over with damp earth. Sellars breathed a sigh of relief. All the same, if only the crane hadn’t seen!

How gloomy and depressing the old cabin seemed! The very air seemed weighted with an unearthly, deathly chill. And those unseen eyes — watching — watching his every movement...

He had been aware of their presence for two years and more, long before Martha died. The doctor had said “hallucinations,” but Sellars knew better. At night, out at his lines or setting his nets, he had been conscious of ghostly whispers and strange murmurs, which quivered in the air about him. He could not shake off that strange sensation that invisible eyes were watching him out of the misty, damp air that hovered over the swamp.

The mysterious sounds were more noticeable in foggy or rainy weather; in fact, several times, when out late at night, he had seen mistlike shapes dogging his footsteps. He had at last come to the firm conviction that the air around the swamp was inhabited by a peculiar group of phantoms, whose forms were almost visible in damp or foggy weather.

Foggy, stormy, gloomy! And the wind this evening whistled across the swamp with a mournful intensity, like a legion of demons turned adrift, seeking for some human being to destroy. Every moment Sellars, sitting there, expected to see the cabin torn apart and its debris scattered broadcast over the swamp. The rain came down in torrents, dripping down the chimney and threatening to extinguish the small fire in the open hearth.

If only Martha were not buried so close to the house! Again and again

PHANTOMS


he felt certain that some one was trying to force open the door. Tiptoeing over, he listened intently. He imag- - ined he could see misty shapes peering in through the solitary window. A damp chill was in the room, despite the fire.

He rolled a barrel of water against the door, then fastened a large sheet of cardboard across the window. The misty shapes, furious that their view was obstructed, pointed ghostly, accusing fingers in his direction.

nplIE night wore on, and Sellars -*■ was unafraid. He pulled a writing tablet towards him and began to write, laughing at the foiled phantom shapes outside.

He dozed off to sleep, only to awake with a shriek of terror and that strange, intangible feeling that the house was surrounded by invisible beings, ready to pounce upon him the moment he stepped outside. And then a cold perspiration stood on his forehead. What if the piece of cardboard which he had fastened across the winSow should fail to resist their attempts to force it?

I With terrified eyes he glanced across the room. The cardboard still protected the window. But Martha seemed to be in the room; and so strong was this feeling that, although he could not see her, he caught himself speaking to her and waiting for her to answer. She seemed, somehow, "to be in the room sewing or knitting aMC-the old, familiar way; and yet she •$was Juried in the shallow grave outjMe'the cabin....

? What a gloomy place the cabin was! He saw something on the threshold,.but as he looked again it was not there. He searched every nook and corner of the room, even going down on his knees and looking under the bed. He could discover nothing. Finally he decided that it must have been the cat; it was now purring lazily before the hearth, and he gave

it a vicious kick and began to prepare hot coffee.

But the wind began to rise, and the rain beat against the window pane in a steady downpour. A chill crept over Sellars; the cat was mewing eerily. At times the cabin rocked and swayed with the fury of the gale. Again he was sure that Martha was in the room — quite close to him now — seeking to communicate with him.

There was a loud rapping at the door, a loud, insistent knocking, as if some one demanded admittance.

Tn a voice trembling with fear. Sellars asked who was there. No response came, but the latch clicked as if some one were trying to open the door.

Panic-stricken, Sellars sat at the table, muttering incoherently to himself. He noticed that the cat, with arched back and hair standing straight in the air, dived under the bed and continued to spit and mew.

Again that knocking on the door, making it quiver on its frail hinges. Then the bar that secured it on the inside began to move slowly out of its socket!

Sellars half attempted to rise from his chair, with the intention of holding the bar in its place, but he was powerless to move. The cat gave a wild screech and dashed through the flame and smoke of the hearth up the wide chimney.

A loud click of the latch, and the door swung open. With eyes starting from their sockets, Sellars, nearly crazed with terror, watched several misty shapes circling round the threshold. They changed and drifted in the wind like phantom forms of fog or smoke.

The desperate man’s hand flew for the revolver in his hip-pocket. As he grasped the weapon, the foremost of the phantoms glided up to where he sat. His brain reeled as he felt a pair of ice-cold hands encircle his wrists. His hands were held as in a vise.



Sellars tried to struggle to his feet, but other hands forced him with irresistible pressure back into the chair. His elbow knocked the lamp from the table. It overturned on the floor; and at that moment the fire on the hearth went out, leaving the room in utter darkness.

The rain and wind had suddenly ceased. The cat, on the roof, was mewing in an agony of terror. Par across the swamp, the bell of one of the channel buoys sent out a mournful sound, like the bell in the belfry of a church as a funeral approaches.

The chill, clammy hands that encircled Sellars’ wrists with a slow, steady pressure forced the muzzle of his revolver against his forehead. He tried desperately to resist, but he was as putty in the grip of those unseen hands.

And then, in a far comer of the room, he saw Martha. And her face was red with blood from the wound he had inflicted.

Sellars made a desperate effort to rise from Ms chair. The thought flashed through his mind that if he could reach her he would be saved.

But in the grip of those uncanny, unearthly forces he was powerless.

The muzzle of the revolver was forced back slowly, irresistibly. Now, like the finger of fate, it pointed directly at his forehead.

A pressure on his finger, a flash of fire before Ms eyes! Martha swayed forward as if to embrace — drifting through space, drifting, drift —....

SUICIDE,” said Carson, at the inquest. “A constitution undermined by long and excessive use of alcohol and drugs. Brain snapped. Undoubtedly he was already insane when he killed his wife. ’ ’

“But what about the statement in deceased ’s handwriting, containing what purported to be a record of the happenings of the hours immediately preceding his death? ’ ’ asked the coroner. “That seems rational enough.”

“Alcohol and drugs,” said the doctor shortly. * * Hallucinations. ’ ’

And he turned abruptly, as if he were glad to have done with the case. For Carson was as hard-headed a man as you could find in the country, and his pride was that he wasn’t superstitious.

Coming Soon

A Remarkable Serial Novel

Invaders from the Dark

By GREYE LA SPINA A gripping tale of werewolves and the powers of evil


I N OUR November issue we asked the readers for an expression of opinion on horror stories of the necrophilic type, and promised that we would take the word of the readers as a command. Many letters have been received in answer to the request, and more are coming in by every mail.

Up to date, those who want horror stories have distinctly the advantage, but many of them qualify their demand for thrillers by saying that the horror stories must not be disgusting. Some of our readers Avant the magazine to drip with gore (“the scarier they are, the better I like them,” writes Bessie Douglas, of Portland, Maine); but these are in a small minority. As near as the editor can make out from the expression of opinion so far received, the readers of Weird Tales don’t want anything nauseating, and yet they do want to read eery, thrilling and bizarre tales of the Edgar Allan Poe type — tales such as they cannot get in any other magazine. But the question is still open. Weird Tales belongs to you, the readers, and your opinions will be eagerly welcomed.

Many of our readers, even while casting their votes against “bloody” stories, express the fear that the tales in this magazine may cease to be weird, and that the very quality that gives it its distinction will disappear.

Randall Campbell, of Henryetta, Oklahoma, writes: “When I buy a Radio News I want it to be about radio. The same with Weird Tales— I want it to be weird.”

The same idea is expressed by C. A. Corson, of Chicago, who writes: “I am heartily in favor of publishing anything that savors of the terrible, weird, occult or unreal. To make Weird Tales absolutely distinctive in this era of stereotyped fiction, and in order to interest a great many readers, it seems to me that it is imperative, in order not to mislead the readers of your magazine, to make it really a magazine of weird, uncanny fiction, different from any other. I believe also that a large number of readers today are surfeited with sea stories, western yams, etc., etc., etc., and that a large clientele will back you up in making Weird Tales live up to its title. Keep your magazine up to what the name implies.”

A voice on the other side is raised by W. S. Charles, of Pendleton, Oregon, who writes: “I herewith put in my oar against ‘horror stories,’ particularly that class that are somber and in the main vicious, beyond the realm of reason. It is bad for you from a circulation point; for when a reader for the first time picks up your magazine and reads such a story, while it for the moment fascinates him or her, to later cause insomnia, you can count on that

179 -



party next month to pass you up for something that does not leave bad night dreams. And I am not speaking of the personal effect, upon myself — for you couldn’t budge my nerves with a sledge hammer.”

Well, readers, we are going to keep the magazine weird, but NOT disgusting. The votes for the necrophilic tales were so few that we are satisfied you. want us to keep the magazine clean. Stories of the Poe type — scary stories — spooky stories — mystic and occult fiction — thrilling mysteries — bizarre crime stories — all these will find place in Weird Tales, but those of you who want tales of blood-drinking and cannibalism will have to make your opinion register a great deal more strongly than you have yet done before we let dow r n the bars to this type of stories. We repeat here what we have said before: Weird Tales belongs to you, the readers, and we will be guided by your wishes. That is the reason we ask you, each month, to write in to The Eyrie, Weird Tales, and let us know which story is your favorite. We want you to point out the particular story that you like best.

The readers’ favorite story in the November issue is “The Brain in the Jar,” by Norman Elwood Hammerstrom and R. F. Searight. This story received nearly half of all the votes cast, as well as a number of votes for second choice. In the choice of stories, at least, you, the readers, have selected a distinctively “weird” tale as your favorite. “Teoquitla the Golden,” by Ramon de las Cuevas, comes second in the balloting. For a time this held the lead in the poll, but then the votes began to pour in for “The Brain in the Jar,” landing this unusual tale in first place.

A remarkable feature of the balloting is the wide range of stories that have drawn votes for first place. Two of the authors themselves took a hand in the voting. Arthur J. Burks, whose story, ‘ ‘ Thus Spake the Prophetess, ’ ’ ran high in the poll, cast his own vote for “Teoquitla the Golden,” and Norman Elwood Hammerstrom, co-author with R. F. Searight of “The Brain in the Jar,” also cast his own vote for “Teoquitla the Golden.”

Lieutenant Burks accompanies his vote with an interesting letter of comment on the November issue:

“I like the new magazine, received this afternoon, and instead of knocking out a thousand words or soi this evening as is my wont, I lighted the old corncob and began to read. Ramon de las Cuevas is a writing Jiombre. Please convey my respects to him. This is humbler than it sounds, I assure you! I liked his story best of the twelve I have read so far. After these, in the order named, I like ‘The Brain in the Jar,’ which is exceptionally good, ‘ Adventure of Souls, ’ ‘ The Desert Lieh, ’ and ‘ A Soulless Resurrection. ’ ‘The Tower of Silence’ gets a vote, too. I like the. careful workmanship of Brosnatch’s cover and art headings. Hold on to that boy! Also keep ‘ Ramon of the Caves’ busy— he knows his stuff! His description of the old beggar woman took me bodily back to the West Indies. In any case my vote for the best story goes to him. May I also vote ‘yes’ for horror stories.”

Everett McNeil, of New York City, in explaining his vote for “The Desert Lieh” by Frank Belknap Long, Jr., writes: “A good tale of this kind is a difficult thing to write. It is difficult to give it just, the proper perspective, so that no part stands out with disproportionate prominence; to put into it that subtle feel of horror and weirdness that attracts, instead of repulses, the imagination, that makes the reader shudder, and yet read on. It is difficult for the author, when picturing the weird or horrible, to exercise a proper repression, to go so far and then to stop, leaving the rest to the



readers’ imagination. These difficulties. I think Mr. Long has overcome with unusual skill. In addition, I like the way he has put his story into words. There is personality in his style. In short, I think this story an unusually good tale of its kind, and I feel that it is no more than fair that, when he does a good piece of work, he should be told that it is good work. Henee this letter. Congratulations on your ‘new’ Weird Tales. Success!!”

We are always glad to get such letters as this. But we are equally glad to get letters of frank criticism, for it is only by constant touch with you, the readers, that we can know what type of stories you want to read. We will give you what you want. And do not fear that the magazine is going to lose its “weird” quality merely by being kept clean. Read “Out of the Long Ago, ” “ The Ocean Leech, ’ ’ and ‘ ‘ Luisma ’s Return, ’ ’ in this issue, and you will see that the magazine completely lives up to its name.

The new, handy form of the magazine seems to have taken the fancy of the readers. It is half the page size of the old Weird Tales but has double the number of pages.

Elwin J. Owens, of Cloquet, Minnesota, comments briefly: “Several changes you have made in the magazine are highly commendable. To enumerate briefly: “Its size is far more convenient, whether on the reading table, placed in a traveling grip, or tucked in one’s pocket; the cover page (as are the headings and tailpieces) by Mr. Andrew Brosnatch is thoroughly in keeping with the other excellent features; your table of contents is considerably more attractive to the reader groping for entertainment, on account of its not being so congested, and being in the front, handy for the searching eye; the stories^— twenty-two in all, variety, and not a poor one — comprize a masterful piece of editorial art; and the headings add much to the balance. Weird Tales is now a ‘Magazine Distinctive ’. ”

Some of our readers write that they have had considerable trouble in obtaining copies of Weird Tales on the news stands. If you are one of these, please ask your news dealer to order a supply of this magazine from his branch of the American News Company.

Several readers have asked us to give them more stories (such as “The Brain in the Jar”) which combine both science and horror. Others ask for more electrical stories. To those readers who want electrical stories we will call attention to “Radio V-Rays,” a remarkable pseudo-scientific story by •lan Dirk in the March issue: Will Smith’s utterly fascinating “Wanderlust, by Proxy” in next month’s issue; and “The Electronic Plague,” by Edward Ilades, which is coming soon. Also, J. Schlossel, author of “Invaders From Outside” in this issue, has written a remarkable radio story for you. called “A Message From Space.” Such stories plumb the future with the eye of propheey, and the vision of these authors may stimulate the imagination of inventors and scientists to the practical benefit of mankind, just as Jules Verne’s remarkable tales bore rich fruit in actual inventions made by readers of his fantastic fiction. Norman Elwood Hammerstrom, in a letter to The Eyrie, expresses this thought when he says: “All things are possible. W<* live in a weird universe, whose surface we have barely scratched. The wildest miracles are perfectly possible. As people learn more and more, such stories as mine (‘The Brain in the Jar’) will seem more plausible.”

And don’t forget to mail in your vote for the best story in this issue. Send it to The Eyrie, Weird Tales, 325 N. Capitol Ave., Indianapolis. Wo want to know what stories you prefer, so that we can give you more of the same kind.




r othere, we give free In addition to liberal for being our agents, t or competition. It's easy to sell The Saturday Blade, the Chicago Ledger and Lone Scout to weekly customers. Only an hour or so on Friday afternoons or Saturdays required. The premiums are In addition to regular cash profits you make on each paper you sell.

Five Dollars a Week Too

Many of oar agents earn up to 96.00 each week in cash profits. You —

of your own.

experience n«

Does not cost you a penny. No risk— yon cannot lose anything. You only send us our share of the money after you hare sold the p pers. Simply send ue a card or letter TODAY Baying, I want to earn money and also get your free premiums, i will ba agent for your papera in my neighborhood."

BOYCE CO.,

tt. CUICA00

independent. Have money i. Start a paper route. No needed. We show you how.

IHMET V I have a sweetheart for you.

* Exchange letters with new friends HEARTS in our dub. Efficient, confidential * **-^***^ * ^ and dignified service. Members

everywhere. EVA MOORE, Box 908, Jacksonville, Fa.

When delayed, or to prevent Delay, read our MEDICAL book, 430 1 pages. Treat your trouble properly. Absolutely, nothing else Reliable. Don't be Duped, Deceived and Swindled. Book and instructions $1.00. Interesting booklet. "BIRTH CONTROL,” 6 cents in stamps. CONVINCING ADVICE FREE. DR. FOOTS SPECIALTY CO., D-7, Terre Haute, Ind.


{Continued from Page 16)

down in a. cloudburst. The invaders were cut off absolutely from all reinforcements from their own kind on No. 5. Knowing that they were doomed, they maneuvered their cubes to form a protecting wall between them and their foes. The defenders became tbe aggressors. They began storming the barricade. The invaders were bunched together behind the cubes waiting.

ALOW hum came from behind the cubes. It rose and rose. It came from the throats of the two-legged invaders. The sound was not displeasing. It gathered volume every instant. Though it was not very melodious at first, still it teemed with pathos. One by one tbe invaders joined in tbe song,. It hinted of a mighty, daring attempt and of a bitter failure. It was their death song.

Meanwhile the invaders on No. 5 who had, through their great knowledge of stellar mechanics, guided their own world from out of the depths of space, were now working desperately in their attempt to install machines that would enable them to swing No. 5 out of its orbit. They had failed in their attempt to 1 conquer the Confederation, and their only wish was to take No. 5 from out of the solar system and escape.

They were installing the machines underground. They threw up shield after shield to protect themselves from the death-dealing rays. Two out of every five machines that they installed were destroyed by the twin jets of light.

The number of invaders left on No. 5 was very small. In desperation they started the machines. The speed of No. 5 began to increase, and she was

rotating faster, too. Something had gone amiss. The jets of light, in destroying nearly half of their machinery. had upset their calculations. The two-legged invaders on No. 5 were seen to run wildly about. They tried to stop the machinery that they had started, hut somehow could not do so.

The rotation of No. 5 became still swifter. Hundreds of thousands of cubes were hurled into the heavens by the centrifugal force of that rotating world. The Confederacy picked off as many as it could with the crossing jets of light, but some managed to escape and were seen heading for Neptune. No. 5 was breaking up! The centrifugal force had become greater than its power of gravitation. Huge masses were seen to detach themselves and go whirling off into space.

Saturn, the largest body in the vicinity, was seen to draw fully one-third of the matter that had composed No. 5 in its general direction. The powerful gi*avitational force of the Sun drew many large pieces, some of which were more than eight hundred miles in diameter, toward himself. The Moon, circling the Earth, came from behind its protection and bore the brunt of a stream of small pieces that struck its surface. Life there was instantly destroyed. The surface of the Moon became partially incandescent. Parts of the Earth, thanks to the Moon, escaped practically uninjured. But there was only a wild kind of life existing there. Jupiter received its share. Two large fragments went hurtling toward Mars.

In destroying No. 5 the invaders had destroyed themselves and nearly all the life on the solar system. The survivors of the Twelve Confederate Worlds made their way to the Earth, the least injured of the planets, and there they began anew, in a strange environment, to build the civilization that had been wrecked by the invaders from beyond the Milky Way.

TTTE END

“Good Bye, Boys!”

“To-day I dropped in for a last word with the boys at the office. And as I saw Tom and Dave there at the same old desk it came to me suddenly that they had been there just so the day I came with the firm four years ago.

“When I started here I wa3 put at a desk and given certain routine things to do. But after a few months I began to realize that I was nothing but a human machine and that I couldn’t expect to advance that way.

“So I wrote to Scranton and arranged for a sparetime study course that would give me special training for our work. Why, do you know, it gave me a whole new interest in our business? In a few months I was given more responsibility and more money. Since then I’ve had three increases, six months ago I was put in charge of my department, and now my big chance has come — I’m to be manager of our Western branch at $5000 a yearl It just shows what spare-time training will do.”

If you want to make more money, show your employer you're trying to bo worth more money. If you want a bigger job, show him you’re willing to prepare for it.

There’s a simple, easy way to do it. For 83 years the International Correspondence Schools have been training men and women right in tlielr own homes wlienever they had a little time to spare. Thousands of men and women have stepped up in just this way. More than 180,000 are studying now. Ten thousand are starting every month.

Can you afford to let another priceless hour pass without finding out what the 1. C. S. can do for you? Here is all we ask— ^without cost, without obligation, mark and mail this coupon.

INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENCE 8CH00LS

Box 7326. Seranton, Penna.

Without cost or obligation on ray part, please tell me how I can Qualify for the position or iu the subject before which I have marked an X:


□ Business Management

□ Industrial Management

□ Personnel Organization

□ Traffic Management

□ Business Law

□ Banking and Banking Law

□ Accountancy (including C.P. A. )

□ Nicholson Cost Accounting

□ Bookkeeping

□ Private Secretary

□ Spanish □ French

] Salesmanship ] Advertising J Better Letters 1 Show Card Lettering j Stenography and Typing ] Business English j Civil Service 1 Railway Mail Clerk i Common School Subjects j High School Subjects 3 Illustrating


I Electrical Engineering Electric Lighting Mechanical Engineer Mechanical Draftsman Machine Shop Practice Railroad Positions Gas Engine Operating Civil Engineer Surveying and Mapping Metallurgy □ Mining Steam Engineering □ Radio

n Architect

H Architects* Blue Prints H Contractor and Builder M Architectural Draftsman n Concreto Builder

□ Structural Engineer

y Chemistry □ Pharmacy Q Automobile Work

□ Airplane Engines

□ Agriculturo and Poultry

□ Mathematics

Name

Street 3-6-24

Address

City State

Occupation

Persons residing in Canada should send this coupon to the International dorrespondenoe Bohools Canadian, Limited, Montreal, Canada

1S4


Help Wanted

We require the services of an ambitious person to do some special advertising work right in your own locality. The work is pleasant and dignified. Pay is exceptionally large. No previous experience is required, as all that is necessary is a willingness on your part to carry out our instructions. If you are at present employed, we can use your sparo time in a way that will not interfere with your present employment— yet pay you well for your time.

If you are making less than $150 a month, the offer I am going to make will appeal to you. Tour spare time will pay you Well— your full time will bring you in a handsome income.

Its costs nothing to investigate. Write me today and 1 will send you full particulars by return mail and place before you the facts bo that you can decide for yourself.

ALBERT MILLS, Gen. Mor. Employment Dept 1021 American Bldg., CINCINNATI, OHIO.

1/2 PRICE WATCH SALE!

Extra thin 1925 model. JEWELED damascened movement, regulated and accurately adjusted. Beautifully engraved Grey French Silver Case, 25yr. written guarantee. Sports picture backs. Truly the handsomest, thinnest jeweled watch for the price. Agents coin money selling it for dou_ ble. FREE— Knife & Chain. Send 20c for postage, balance when delivered. Buy direct from importers. PARK-ROW CO., PARKROW BUILDING, NEW YORK. DEPT. W. T.


Protect yourself against hold-up, rowdies, etc. with this clever cigarette case of light weight metal. Looks exactly like the real thing! Pull the trigger, back flies the lid ihowlng your cigarettes. Lots — of fun. scaring your

friends, and a great l protector. Sold exclui sivoly by us. PAY POS ________

fl MAM $1.79 on do- Pat. PendiniS 1 livery plus postage.

Money back if not satisfied.

PATHFINDER CO., Dept. KG3B 534 Sixth Ave., N. T.


Trade Mark. Reg. U. 8. Pat. Off.

THE LATEST NOVELTY 50c. Per Book

Eaeb book contains 50 perfect little name cards, size { 1%X%. in genuine leather case. Choice of black, k tan, green or red. A perfect name card. 1 Name in Old English type. Price complete 50c. Send stamps, coin or money order. Satisfaction guaranteed or money refunded. Agents Wanted,


94 MAIN ST., GREEN, ft. I.

LADIES

When delayed, or to prevent delay, get our booklet, "BIBTH CONTROL & CONVINCING ADVICE,” 10c. Plain cover. DR. FOUTS, D-7, Terre Haute, Indiana.


( Continued from Page 156)

is the most powerful of the men of the hollow mountain. All women of the mountain belong to him. You belong to Morop now. Once Walum would have claimed you, but Walum is dead and he was the friend of Morop.”

Virginia noted the open doorway and made a quick effort to reach it. Onee in the gloom she hoped to be able to outrun the beast or elude him in the darkness. Morop apparently had anticipated some such move, for as the girl made the attempt he sprang, catlike, in front of her and grasped her. He crushed her time after time to his body as she fought and screamed in terror.

The crack of two revolver shots in rapid succession suddenly awoke the echoes of the surrounding caverns. Virginia felt the giant form holding her crumple and distinguished the spurt of Morop ’s warm life blood upon her neck.

“Quick, Virginia,” called a voice from without.

“Benton!” she cried joyfully.

“We must run,” he said quickly, grasping her hand and pulling her after him.

Together they fled into the darkness beyond the village of stone huts. As they ran they could hear the shouts of the warriors of Morop, who had come from their huts to investigate the source of the unusual reports.

“Holton and a band are waiting a short distance from here,” said Benton.

Through the darkness they hurried as best they could. Their progi'ess was uninterrupted, and in the distance Virginia soon detected a glow of light from a hundred torches.

“Holton, Otter and the Duros forces,” Benton explained. “They




Easy to Drive, 60 Miles to a Gallon, 4

Wire Wheels-Racer Model ^ ^ SSJT to 25 Miles an Hour — Sturdy, Fast, Safe.

Can You Solve This Puzzle?

Make out the words spelled by the numbers below and win 1,000 Speedster Votes. The letters of the alphabet are numbered A is 1, B is 2, C is 3, and so on. Each number represents a letter. Take a minute or two and solve the puzzle. It’s fun. 1,000 Speedster Votes for your correct answer to the puzzle.

Just think of driving a car of your very own. Fun won't be any name for it. Pride and pleasure to the limit. Glorious joy ahead of you if you will only act quickly — at once — this very minute. Send' your puzzle answer right now and win 1,000 votes for this wonderful little car. No losers. Every one who joins this club gets a prize. Don’t put it off. Grand prizes awarded January 12, duplicated in case of tie. Start to win today.

JACK ROSE, 500 N*Dearborn P s”eet. CHICAGO, ILL.

A real Auto thatany boy can drive given absolutely free

Send No Money.

Your name and address and puzzle answer gives you 1000 Votes.

A Prize

For

Every

Club

Member


Everyone enjoys tho movies. Comedies, stories, travel pictures interest and entertain old and young alike. Now have your own movie show right at home. Turn your bam or. basement or attic into a home movie show. Snow, cold or rain cannot spoil vour fun. I This National Moving Picture Outfit comprises everything needed to give complete perr formances. Machine (either electric or gas) 120 in. film, 50 still views, show bills, tickets, operator's and usher’s badges. Pictures 36x48 in. Not a little toy, but a big, practical, scientifically built moving picture machine working just like those in regular theaters. Will provide countless hours of pleasure for family and friends. Given entirely free by million dollar firm as a big reward for showing its great magazines among your neighbors who will be glad to pay you 50c apiece for a big special double value combination bargain offer. You can get the few customers needed in a few hours, then this genuine moving picture outfit complete in every way is yours entirely free.

Criin NO MnNFV Just your name and address for 14 ® 11 ww iWS wn & 1 fast selling popular art pictures to

distribute on our big value ty)c combination offer. Collect and send us only $7.00 on our easy plan, and we will then send you this complete National Moving Picture Outfit free and fully prepaid as your reward. Send today. Address

BOYCE COMPANY, 500 N. Dearborn St., Dept. M P 2, CHICAGO, ILL.

WHY WAIT?

Subscribe Now for WEIRD TALES

$2.50 a Year in U. S.; $3.00 in Canada



Would You Give One, Dollar to be Relieved of Those Rheumatic Pains?

Mr. Marhaffer, Aqueduct, Long Island, writes: “LUKES RHEUMATIC RELIEF did wonders for me. I have been crippled for years, tried all the well known remedies, getting no relief. But I heartily recommend LUKES RELIEF to all rheumatic sufferers.’'

Many such testimonials are in our flies. So sure are we that LUKES will give relief we absolutely guarantee satisfaction. Your money will be refunded if it fails. Mail one dollar to

LUKES MEDICAL RELIEF COMPANY,

P. O. Box 77, Station N, New York City.

Bushels of Great Stories

Wonderful stories of love, mys- C. L tery, adventure and intrigue il- x HV lustrated in colors — true stories, *■ — — * ■ n strange stories; absorbing, thrilling I O stories of real life. WEEKLY Ml EX i/C LEDGER is America’s great VTCXIXO story paper. Send 25c for 13 nCn weeks trial subscription (% price). iU 1 '' About 400 large pages of enthralling stories by great writers. Tremendous bargain. Greatest story paper for the money. Rush 25c quick. Nothing more to pay. Money back if not delighted.

WEEKLY LEDGER 500 57 CHICAGO

TESTED ENDORSED » m SPANISH GOVERNMENT

ONLY 192 5rVodet

Side Swing Cylinder Revolver made of Bilbao blue steel. Send for this accurate, dependable and powerful gun, with auU matic hammer safety. Free Catalog

SendNoMoney ^“us °£>sta£

Satisfaction guaranteed or money back.

New York Importers Co., Dept. M981. 200 Broadway, N. Y. City

ECZEMA

Also called Tatter, Salt Rheum, Pruritls, Milk Crust, Water Poison, Weeping Skin, etc.

Can be cured to stay. I mean.lust what I say: O-U-R-E-D and NOT merely patched up to return again. Remember, I make this statement after handling over half a million cases of eczema and devoting 24 years of my life to its treatment. I don’t care what you have used or are using now, nor how many doctors have told you that you could not be cured; all I ask is just a chance to prove my claims. Just write me TODAY and I will semi yon a FREE TRIAL of my mild, soothing, guaranteed treatment that will surely convince you and thousands of others as it has me. Just write me and try it. Address:

DR. J. E. CANNADAY. Eczema Specialist 317 S. Park. SEDALIA. MO.

thought it best for one of us to enter the village and find out if possible where you were before attacking the place. I arrived at the time the big fellow entered your prison.”

“Just in time to save me,” she asserted. ‘ ‘ I can never repay you. ’ ’

“You could, Virginia,” he said, “but I dare not think of ever assessing the price.”

* ‘ How am I to know? ’ ’ she queried.

Their eyes met in the faint light.

“Virginia,” he said, “I love you. I had hoped to be able to tell you some time, but did not intend to now, for fear you might think that I was anxious to take advantage of our present situation. ’ ’

For answer her hand clasped his a little tighter.

“I am glad,” she said, “to know that you do.”

Into the circle of light the two made their way. Holton and Otter advanced from the group of waiting warriors and expressed their delight over the rescue. Benton was required to explain immediately how he had accomplished the feat single-handed.

“We must keep close watch,” said Holton. ‘ ‘ We are at a point where we can block the progress of any parties through this portion of the cavern. We could arrest any pursuing parties, and there may be such as soon as the death of the man in the stone hut is discovered. ’ ’

“The cavern widens to a quarter of a mile, a little farther from here, ’ ’ Benton explained. “It is there that the village of the mountain men begins. ”

“In the morning.” Holton continued, “we will march through and if they oppose our passage we will fight our way past them. ’ ’

Benton then turned again to Virginia.

“We returned today from our trip to the plane,” he explained. “When



we learned that you had been captured by the strange inhabitants of this hollow mountain, we immediately planned to rescue you. We have three hundred warriors with us. Other than our own rifles and revolvers we have distributed the remainder of the weapons among Gomo, Duros and their followers. We taught them tp use the weapons on our return trip from the plane. Duros learned in an hour’s time. Gomo and Duros, with this force of men, will accompany us not only through the mountain but as far as we need their services. Upon getting out of here we shall seek the coast at once and obtain definite knowledge of our location. ’ ’

“I Avan t to get some of my other clothing,” said Virginia. “The mountain brute nearly tore to pieees the ones that I am wearing.”

“All of your things have been brought,” said Benton. “Gala and two other native women are Avith the party. I shall lead you to them, as they are taking care of your things.”

Holton and Otter held a conference with Gomo and Duros in Avhieh they were later joined by Benton.

“We will camp here all night and proceed in the morning,” said Benton. ‘ ‘ Virginia informs me that there is good daylight Avhen we get farther into the mountain. Leave a strong guard so that Ave will not be surprized, and Ave can get some much needed rest.”

The plan Avas folloAved and the night was spent Avithout incident. In the morning the forces of warriors and carriers began moving forward through the mountain tOAvard the place where Morop’s village stood. A short distance from the village a crowd of the Morop forces came advancing to meet the warriors of Duros and the Avhite party.

“There’s no use to wait for action

^Tobacco Habit

BANISHED

Let Us Help You

I

I

I

No craving for tobacco in any form after you begin taking' Tobacco Redeemer. Don’t try to

quit the tobacco habit unaided. It’s often a losing light against heavy odds and may ■ mean a serious shock to the nervous sys- ■ tem. Let as help the tobacco habit to quit B YOU. It will quit you. if you will just take Tobacco Redeemer according to directions.

It is marvelously quick; thoroughly reliable.

Not a Substitute |

Tobacco Redeemer contains no habitiorming drugs of any kind. It is in no sense a substitute for tobacco. After finishing the treatmentyou have absolutely no desire to UBe tobacco again or to continue the use of the remedy. It makes not a particle of difference how long you have been using tobacco, how much you use or in what form you use it— whether you smoke cigars, cigarettes, pipe, chew plug or fine cut or use snuff. Tobacco Red eemer will positively remove all craving for tobacco in any form in a very few days. This weabsolutely guarantee in every case or money refunded.

Write today for our free booklet showing the deadly effect of tobacco upon the human

K tem and positive proof that Tobacco ieemerwillquickly free youof the habit. Newell Pharmacal Company, Dept. 750 St. Louis, Mo.

I

I

I

This Elegant Watch

Send No Money

$5«Z

c. o. A

$12.50

Value

Fine blue steel double action.32 or.38 cal. revolver now only $5.87. Biggest

bargain ever offered. Send

No Money. — Just deposit our special cut price with postmaster plus few cents postage on arrival. Absolute satisfaction guaranteed. Jewelry and gun catalog free. Order today.

UNITED BUYING ASS’N Dept. 200, 800 N. Clark St. Chicago, Dl.

Get- a sweetheart. Exchange letters. Write me, enclosing stamp. VIOLET RAY

Dennison Ohio




La-Mar Reducing Soap

The new discovery. Results quick and amazing: — nothing internal to take. Reduce any part of body desired without affecting other parts. No dieting or exercising. Be as slim as you wish. Acts like magic in reducing double chin, abdomen, ungainly ankles, unbecoming wrists, arms and shoulders, large breasts or any superfluous fat on body. Sold direct to you by mail, postpaid on a money-back guarantee. Price 60c a cake or three cakes for $1.00; one to three cakes usually accomlish its purpose. Send cash or money-order toay. You’ll be surprised at results.


627A Beckman Building Cleveland, Ohio

Tear aside the Veil of Uncertainty. Know your Hidden Abilities and Occupy your proper place in the world — Banish Worry and Pear.

Famous Doctor of Astrology will Show you How. Send AT ONCE for your Three Page FREE Horoscope and learn of the Laws of Nature created for you at your Birth. Hear of your Past — Future Success — Your Friends and Enemies — Affairs of the Heart, and many other important Facts.

Just send your handwriting, full birth data with 10c for postage and this amazing information will be sent to you at once. Print your name and address to avoid delay in mailing. Write now and Good Fortune will be Yours.

GARGHJ8 STUDIO, Box 2771-WT, Boston, Mass.

at close quarters,” said Benton. “Open on them now.”

Twenty rifles in the hands of the white men, Duros, Gomo and other warriors began to crack. Dozens of the advancing mountain men fell to the floor of the cavern. Their followers, however, were persistent and kept coming on, to fall as their comrades had fallen. Nearly a hundred of them had been stretched upon the cavern floor before the remainder broke and fled.

‘‘Duros will be king of the hollow mountain, too, ’ ’ cried the chieftain as he viewed the flight of the mountain men.

The advance continued until the stone village was reached. The inhabitants had fled, and no further opposition was encountered. For a time the expedition halted to survey the wonders of the opening in the mountain top.

The march through the mountain then continued. The light afforded by the opening in the top of the peak gradually grew dimmer as the expedition advanced. It beeame necessary to light the torches again. For another two hours tin* march continued through the gloom of the great cavern.

‘ ‘ Daylight at last! ” Benton suddenly exclaimed.

Virginia, who was walking near him, looked ahead and distinguished what appeared to be a spot of light about the size of a saucer. The diameter gradually increased as the party advanced. The opening to the other side of the jungle was finally reached, and the members of the party halted just out of the cavern.

“Out of the Valley of Teeheemen,” said Bentou.

“Now for the coast and the first ship for home,” remarked Otter.

The camp that night was made a

Subscribe now for Weibd Tabes

Are You Hungry to Enjoy The Blessings of Youth Again?

German Scientist Perfects Wonderful Discovery for Restoring the Power and Vitality of Youth «

Every man or woman who has grown old “too 600 n” may be rejuvenated and again, enjoy the thrills of renewed vigor, strength and vitality as in the days of youth. An eminently successful German scientist, after vears of research, has discovered a simple but powerful treatraentfor arousing, stimulating and developing the mysterious ENDOCRINE glands that affect practically all of the vitalf unctions of the human body. The Endocrine Laboratory was so enthused over the remarkable results reported by eminent physicians that they have arranged to make this treatment easily available to all who realize that they are “too old” for their years and feel the need of a dependable rejuvenating elixir. This treatment, because of its quick, direct, selective action is called GLANOLEUM, comes in tablet form, is inexpensive and can be easily taken by anyone, anywhere. Thousands who have tried GLANOLEUM have been amazed at the almost immediate results, frequently within two or three days, and are astonished to feel the vigor and strength of youth returning to them so soon. The great success of GLANOLEUM is due to the method of combining the GLAND and

AFRICAN BARK treatment together with other powerful but harmless ingredients for stimulating both gland and nerve centers to normal activity, causing ailments to disappear. Those desiring quick relief just send your name and address to the ENDOCRINE LABORATORY, Dept. M. St. Louis, U. S. A., and they will send you by mail a full #4.00 treatment- for the advertising price of #2.00. On arrival pay the postman only this small sum and a few cents Government postage, or if you prefer, enclose #2.00 in your letter. (Foreign countries must remit #2.50 with order.) In either case you run no risk whatever as you are fully protected by a positive guarantee. Take the Treatment for one week and if you are not wonderfully benefited notify them at once and your money in full will be returned. Try GLANOLEUM on a positive agreement that you will find it all that is claimed or your money refunded without question. Remember, if you now grow old in vigor, strength and vitality it is your own fault — forGLANOLEUM works, wonders.. Send your order today, now, while it is fresh in your. mind. The Money-Back Guarantee protects you in every way.

This Is Not a Contest— No Competition With Others. It Is free!

This splendid guaranteed 1500 -mile Radio receiving set is /"'""’iJn" nRnaiTin»I.Ijr** rac, a complete— -has head phones.batteries.tube, wire for aerial / „.

—everything — no extras to buy, just put up and operate. /.SK3L

NOT ONE PENNY NEEDED. Gentlemen:

Mail die coupon below for full details as to how A Without obligating me, please send mo full detail, of jrotw you may obtain this Radio set absolutely free of /, ° ffe r «*» 1800-mite complete Badto aet abeotntely frea.

charge No obligation / 1 underst »“< 1 tM» •«* wfjl not cost me one penny.

RADIO DEPT., W. O. BOYCE CO., £ Name........... Locai Addrau..••••«»•••

S00 N. Dearborn St., Chicago, til. /

Town. a.,.

TO ADVERTISE!

Thousands of 1000-Mile ladio Sets

Complete Outfit— Ready to Operate 1 Vl EL EL ■

ISO

Kindly mention this magazine when answering advertisements



50-50

Fifty Stories for Fifty Cents

THE SUNKEN LAND, by George W. Bayly

An eery tale of a forest of great trees alive with hate and armed with giant tentacles.

THE PURPLE DEATH, by Edith Lyle Ragsdale

In your wildest imaginings you will not guess what killed these men until the author reveals it to you.

IN THE WEIRD LIGHT, by Edward Everett Wright and Ralph Howard Wright

A fascinating novelette about one who wandered through the maelstrom into the secret caverns of ' earth.

THE SIXTH TREE, by Edith Lichty Stewart

A tale of the weirdest game that ever was played.

IMPRISONED WITH THE PHARAOHS, by Houdini

The master magician tells an eery, true story of his adventures in Egypt.

The above are a few of the smashing stories in this BIG ANNIVERSARY NUMBER of “Weird Tales.” Altogether, there are fifty distinct features — Novels, Short Stories and Novelettes. This issue was the May, June and July numbers combined. We have a limited number of them on hand, and while the supply lasts, will mail one, postage prepaid, to any address for




325 N. Capitol Ave., Dept. A. 8,

Indianapolis, Ind.

Enclosed find 50c for copy of Anniversary Number.

Nome ■>■■■■-

Address ■— ■■■

City State

short distance from the exit of the cavern.


TWO weeks later a small steamship plying in the fruit trade between New Orleans and. South American ports steamed from the harbor of a small South American port and made toward the open sea.

On the dock stood a solitary, tall figure waving a fragment of a leather trapping. On the deck of the steamer three white men and a young girl stood and watched the lone figure.

As the man on the dock waved, the girl in reply waved her handkerchief. There were tears in her eyes. Benton was at her side.

“Gomo, good-bye,” she called. “Good-bye to the land of Teeheemen,” echoed her companion.

THE END

Note. — The first part of this story teas published in the November issue of Weusd Tales Copy will be mailed to any address on receipt of 25 cents.

GET THE HABIT!

Why run the chance of missing an issue of WEIRD TALES?

Subscribe Now!

$2.50 a year in the United States; $3.00 in Canada

Stop Using a Truss

STUART’S PtAPAOPADS are different from the truss, heing meohanlcochcmico applicators made I Self-adhesive purposely to

hold the distended musolea securely in placet No straps, buckles or spring. attached —cannot slip, so cannot chafe or prose against tho pubic hone., Thousands bavo successfully treated themselves at home without hindrance from work — meet Obstinate cases conauered.

Soft St velvet— easy to apply— Inexpensive.

Gold Medal and Grand Prix. Process of teoovery la natural, so afterwards no further use for trusses. We prove it by sending Trial of Ptapao absolutely pBpB* Write name on Coupon and send TO DAY. *

Plapao Co., 438 Stuart Bldg., St. Louis Mo,

Name «

Address

Return mall will bring Eros tWrt flapao •



Sffll REWARDS PUZZLE FOR ALL WHO TRY

BOYCE CO., 502 N. Dearborn St., Auto Dept.ll, Chicago

MILLION DOLLAR FIRM WILL GIVE 3 SEDANS AWAY

This wonderful free offer is made by a million dollar Chicago firm that has already given away more than 50 new automobiles to advertise its business, as well as thousands of dollars more In fine prizes and cash. Act now and share in this big new Free Auto offer— splendid OLDSMOBILE Sedan, OVERLAND Coupe Sedan. FORD Tudor Sedan — three beautiful comfortable sedans will be given away free. Costs nothing to enter. Thousands of dollars in cars and prizes for winners. Send quick and get ready to win.

What three words are rei.resented by th6 figures in the squares? The alphabet is numbered: A is 1, B is 2, C is 3, etc. The three words tell the truth. Can you work this out? If so send your answer quickly. Send no money, just your answer. You can win a beautiful new sedan, 25 beautiful and expensive prizes. Cash rewards. Full information free. Be quick. It pays to hurry.

Costs Nothing to Try — Send Your Answer Today!

It won’t cost you anything to learn how you get this glorious 6-cylinder Oldsmoblle Sedan, worth over $1250.00 absolutely free, so send your name and address at once for 5,000 free starting Sedan Votes. We will show you how others won free Autos and how you can win the Oldsmobile, the Overland, or the Ford in a few weeks. Three Sedans and other fine prizes awarded Jan. 5. Prizes duplicated in case of tie. Do not hesitate. Others have won. So can you. Write today sure and start to win. Your name and address quick. We have wonderful news for you.

Winners Wanted Answer Quick

TOBACCO cj;?d n O f r f No Pat

form, cigar*, cigarette*, pipe, diewini i*L Harmle**. Co't»$1.90if it cure*.

r - _ ig or snuff. Full treatment Mat $1.00 if it cur**, nothin®;f it fail*. Used by over

000,000 Men and Women. Superba Co* T-31 Baltimore, Md.

Sweethearts correspondence club. Stamped envelope for sealed proposal. LILLIAN SPftOTIL Station H. Cleveland, Ohio

AWORD TO WOMEN!

WHY SUFFER OR WORRY? Get quick relief. My proven successful PRIVATE “MONTHLY" remedy never fails. Safely relieves some of the longest, most obstinate, abnormal cases in 24 hours. No pain or interference with work. Guaranteed safe. Reliable and Best. Valuable directions with box. By mail $2. Extra Strength $3. Book of Knowledge Free. _.

VIOLA A. NURSE, Colorado Springs, Colo.



Do Toil Dp

Tour Hat toTburTHfe?

A little thing, perhaps. But just the sort of little thing that reveals character, that betrays breeding.

Wouldn't you like to have such complete ease and poise that you do instinctively, even without stopping to think about it, the thing that is faultless, correct? Wouldn't you like to be always sure of yourself, confident, comfortable? It is only by doing and saying the right thing instinctively, in your daily life, in your contact with, your wife, your business associates, your friends, that you can always avoid self-consciousness and embarrassment — no matter where you are or with whom you happen to be.

The New Book of Etiquette

By Lillian Eichler

The New Book of Etiquette, completely revised, enlarged and brought up to the minute to meet the changed conditions of 1925! Every single phase of correct social deportment is thoroughly covered. What to do, say and wear on all occasions: How to avoid distressing mistakes and embarrassments. How to acquire poise, case, self-confidence, charm. In this standard, justly famous guide, you will find every conceivable question answered fully and with authority. Every possible problem that you might encounter is solved for you in language that is simple, to the point, easy to understand.

New Subjects Never Before Covered

Unlike other books on this subject, the new, revised Book of Etiquette covers numerous closely related topics in addition to tho usual ones — topics of vital importance to you. A few of these are: "Love," “Marriage," "The Fetish of Public Opinion," "Wearing the Mask; of Pretense," "The Ethics of Friendship," and "New Ways to Entertain." Another unusual feature is a collection of actual letters exchanged between the author ana persons in many parts of the world on problems of etiquette.

books arrive, hand your postman only $1,98 few.cents delivery charges). Inspect thei five days. Then if you feel that you can to be without them, simply remail them and your money will be promptly refunded, dreds of thousands of people paid $3.50 fc original Book of Etiquette — yet you receive New Book of Etiquette for only $1.98 — if yc promptly.

So, don’t delay. Take advantage of this now. Let this great modern guide to pe polish — correct conduct — pleasing manner.* your every-day counselor. Address Nelson bleday, Inc., Dept. 2291, Garden City, N. Y.

NELSON DOUBLED AY, INC.,

Dept. 2201, Garden City, New York.

Examine It Now

Lose no time in getting and examining The New Book of Etiquette. This remarkable book, in two handsome, beautifully illustrated volumes, can be of more value to you than s'QU can possibly realize until you examine it with your own eyes. You will wa^t it the minute you see it and realize its worth to you in every activity of your life.

Send No Money

Right now is the time for you to get and examine The New Book of Etiquette. Send no money. Just sign and mail the coupon. We will send you The New Book of Etiquette, complete in two handsomely- bound illustrated volumes, carefully packed in plain shipping case. When the

You may send me The New Book of Etic by Lillian Eichler, in two volumes, hands illustrated, 1925 edition. Upon arrival, I will the postman $1.98 (plus few cents dc charges). If, upon inspection, I find it is no what I want, I will remail it in five days ai money is to he promptly refunded.

( please write plainly)

Address

□ Check this square if you want these with the beautiful, full-leather bindi: $2.98, with the same return privilege. (< from outside the U. S. are payable $2.44 cast order. Leather binding $3.44 cash, with ore

Kindly mention this magazine when answering advertisements

FHFF* watch r ivli:* chain

For a limited time we are offering a beautiful Watch Chain FREE. Write now while offer lasts.

Latest Style,

Thin Models

Just $1.00! The balance in easy monthly payments. You get the famous Studebaker, 21 Jewel Watch — Insured for a lifetime — direct from the maker at lowest prices ever named on equal quality. Send at once for FREE Book of advance Watch Styles.

21 (Jewel

Studebaker

-the Insured Watch

Choice of 54 latest, thin model. Art Beauty Cases in yellow gold, green gold or white gold effects; 8 adjustments, including heat, cold, isochronism and 5 positions. Direct to you from the factory —the greatest watch value in America today l

\A7-rtt-pk -/Vvr Send at once and get a copy of this book—

W ilie JOl Otyie COOK* FREEl See the newest, beautiful, advance styles in Studebaker Art Beauty Cases and Dials. Read how you can buy a 21 Jewel Studebaker Insured Watch direct from the makei — save big money — and pay for it while you are using it. Write for our Free Book. It will post you on watch styles and watch values. Send coupon at once. Get Free Chain offer today while it lasts.


Dept. V-200 South Bend, Indiana

Canadian Address: Windsor, Ontario

Mail Coupon fir tree Booh


Dept. V.200 South Bend, Indiana Please send me your Free Book of Advance Watch I Styles and particulars of your $1.00 down offer.

If you live in Canada send your inquiry to our Canadian office: W incisor, Ontario.

Name.

Address..

.State..

Write for special folder showing Ladies’ Bracelet Watches in newest designs and shapes.

IUVgA! tjjg^lXg^ t-^4 l\g^ LXg^J t>^J t^J tAg^J l^J Pg4,%Xg/j t>g43 UVg^J UVgA! UV^VJ l\gA3 IVgAl l-^J U^4 t>gA! tAgAJ LVgA] 1^74 UVgA' l^Ai IVg^'! 1-VgA! LX^ L\gA! lAgA!

ii^jijg/jtaaijgjji

No Collection of Books

Owned by Anyone Who Speaks the English Language is

Complete Without a Set of Poe

Ww! i

ilvivirriYltrM

NEVER was there a more unhappy mortal than Poe. Wretched in his death as in his life, he never dreamed that his bust would one day stand in the Hall of Fame. And now, with the ever-growing appreciation of his immortal genius, a new tribute is paid to Poe — THE. RICHMOND EDITION. This delightful set of Poe’s Works is printed from new type-set plates made especially for this edition. The size of type is long primer, which is easy reading and restful to the eyes. The paper is excellent, made to order for this edition. The illustrations are from the original paintings by F. Gilbert Edge. The volumes are handy in size, 4x6% inches and bound in fine red linen cloth.

POE was the inventor of a school of fiction — startling and weird. His tales of mystery, imagination and humor are the greatest ever written. Poe’s works have met with universal popularity, not only with English-speaking peoples of the world, but also by foreigners, and his wonderful tales have been translated into many languages. His genius — in its own field — is unrivaled and unapproached. He created a school of fiction and poetry that has had many imitators, but none that even the most fulsome courtesy can compare with him in depth of feeling, in effective style, and in his weird and mystic trend of thought.

If you enjoy the genuinely weird type of story (and we believe you do, otherwise you would not be reading this magazine) you will be thrilled with “The Murders in the Rue Morgue,” the greatest weird story and one of the greatest short stories ever written. This, and all the other famous weird writings of Poe, are included in this wonderful set of books. To the readers of “Weird Tales” we

are offering this splendid set of Poe for $3.80 complete.

SPECIAL OFFER; This complete set of Poe’s Works with a year’s subscription to “Weird Tajes” for $5.00. (Canada, $5.50.)

We May Never Be Able to Repeat This Offer Take advantage of this opportunity now while you have the chance and while our address is before you. Use the coupon and check the offer you want.

WEIRI) TALES,

408 Holliday Bldg.,

Indianapolis, Ind.

• □ Set of Poe’s Works.

□ Set of Poe’s Works and 1 year’s subscription to “Weird Tales.”

I c*nclose $ Please send me tin

offer that I have checked.

Name Address

City State

[THE END]
