============================================================
Weird Tales
Volume , Number 
Date: October 1927
============================================================
============================================================
TABLE OF CONTENTS

  1. "The  Ride  of  Falume _ Robert  E" by Howard
  2. "Hunger - John  D" by Swain
  3. "The  Old  Nurse’s  Story _ Elizabeth  C" by Gaskell
============================================================
============================================================
THE  RIDE  OF  FALUME _ ROBERT  E
by Howard
============================================================
now - ”

Some  day  I’m  going  to  tie  an  anvil to  Revell ’s  ankles  and  then  kick  him into  Lake  Michigan.

The  Ride  of  Falume

By  ROBERT  E.  HOWARD

Falume  of  Spain  rode  forth  amain  when  twilight’s  crimson  fell To  drink  a  toast  with  Bahram ’s  ghost  in  the  scarlet  land  of  Hell.

His  rowels  clashed  as  swift  he  dashed  along  the  flaming  skies ;

The  sunset  rade  at  his  bridle  braid  and  the  moon  was  in  his  eyes.

The  waves  were  green  with  an  eery  sheen  over  the  hills  of  Thule And  the  ripples  beat  to  his  horses’  feet  like  a  serpent  in  a  pool.

On  vampire  wings  the  shadow  things  wheeled  round  and  round  his  head,

Till  he  came  at  last  to  a  kingdom  vast  in  the  Land  of  the  Restless  Dead.

They  thronged  about  in  a  grisly  rout,  they  caught  at  his  silver  rein ;

“Avaunt,  foul  host!  Tell  Bahram ’s  ghost  Falume  has  come  to  Spain!”

Then  flame-arrayed  rose  Bahram ’s  shade :  ‘  ‘  What  would  ye  have,  Falume  ?  ’  ’

*  ‘  Ho,  Bahram  who  on  Earth  I  slew  where  Tagus  ’  waters  boom,

Now  though  I  shore  your  life  of  yore  amid  the  burning  West,

I  ride  to  Hell  to  bid  ye  tell  where  I  may  ride  to  rest.

My  beard  is  white  and  dim  my  sight  and  I  would  fain  be  gone.

Speak  without  guile :  where  lies  the  isle  of  mystic  Avalon  ?  ’  ’

“A  league  behind  the  western  wind,  a  mile  beyond  the  moon,

Where  the  dim  seas  roar  on  an  unknown  shore  and  the  drifting  stars  lie strewn :

The  lotus  buds  there  scent  the  woods  where  the  quiet  rivers  gleam,

And  king  and  knight  in  the  mystic  light  the  ages  drowse  and  dream.”

With  sudden  bound  Falume  wheeled  round,  he  fled  through  the  flying  wrack Till  he  came  again  to  the  land  of  Spain  with  the  sunset  at  his  back.

“No  dreams  for  me,  but  living  free,  red  wine  and  battle’s  roar;

I  breast  the  gales  and  I  ride  the  trails  until  I  ride  no  more.  ’  ’


[THE END]

============================================================
HUNGER - JOHN  D
by Swain
============================================================
HUNGER

By  JOHN  D.  SWAIN

HERITAGE  had  passed  the stage  where  he  was  conscious of  hunger.  Indeed,  there  was an  almost  complete  and  ascetic  sev¬ erance  of  mental  ajid  physical  con¬ sciousness,  a  serene  exhilaration  in which  his  mind  functioned  with amazing  clarity.

Questions  for  whose  answer  he  had often  groped  blindly  were  now  re¬ vealed  to  him  as  vividly  as  a  strange countryside  is  photographed  upon  the brain  at  night  by  a  flash  of  light¬ ning.  He  did  not  ponder  on  futile puzzles  whose  answer  is  a  matter  of numerals  or  statistical  details,  but  for the  first  time  he  was  able  to  grasp  the meaning  of  eternity  without  begin¬ ning  or  end,  of  an  universe  without boundaries.  Such  a  childish  device as  our  Time  conception  amused  him. He  perceived  the  reasonableness  of the  Fourth  Dimension,  of  other  di¬ mensions  beyond.

Meanwhile,  as  he  passed  through the  darkness,  it  seemed  to  him  that he  was  immensely  tall,  his  head among  the  stars,  and  that  instead  of walking  he  remained  fixed  in  space while  past  him,  on  either  hand,  fled the  trees  and  fields,  the  little  hills  and the  scattered  farmsteads.  He  real¬ ized  that  such  a  state  could  not  long endure ;  that  his  mind  was  nieely  bal¬ anced  on  a  thin  blade  of  conscious¬ ness  from  which  the  slightest  breath would  overbalance  it  and  plunge  him into  dark  hallucinations.  He  must eat  soon,  or  delirium  would  claim  him.

It  was  therefore  with  a  fierce  joy that  at  last,  amid  all  these  miles  of darkened  houses,  he  beheld  a  little house  whose  every  window  blazed with  lights.  Candle-lights;  for  as  he drew  near  he  observed  that  lighted

candles  stood  in  rows  on  every  sill.

Candles  are  in  cathedrals,  and  cof¬ fee-houses.  They  are  lighted  in  joy and  sorrow.  They  grace  austere  old houses  where  are  much  worn  silver and  old  books  and  solid  furniture  pol¬ ished  by  generations  of  hands,  and frowning  portraits  on  faded  walls. They  burn  in  thieves’  cellars..  They are  gay,  arrogant,  furtive.  Seen  in this  isolated  house,  and  long  past midnight,  they  could  indicate  but  one occasion:  death!

Heritage,  forgetting  his  first  im¬ pulse  to  ask  for  food,  was  moved  to pause  here  to  pay  his  respects  to  the dead.  With  the  urbanity  of  famine, he  would  salute  the  still  one,  old  man, woman,  child,  with  a  hail  and  fare¬ well.

He  entered  in;  and  as  he  thrust open  the  unlocked  door,  a  venerable man  rose  and  bowed.  “I  have  been waiting,”  he  said  simply.  “I  knew you  would  come.”

‘  ‘  How  could  you  know,  when  I  only took  this  road,  a  strange  one  to  me, by  chance?”

The  old  man  smiled.  ‘‘There  is  no such  thing  as  chance.  Of  course,  I could  not  know  that  it  would  be  you, in  particular.  But  someone  was bound  to  come.  I  need  an  acolyte, that  I  may  complete  my  task.”

He  looked  down  upon  a  little  trestleboard  over  which  had  been  thrown a  gaudy  red  tablecloth,  and  upon which  lay  a  long  roll  of  fine  white linen  cloth,  like  a  cocoon,  with  two large  candles  burning  at  each  end.

The  old  man,  Heritage  noted  as  his eyes  became  accustomed  to  the  flicker of  many  little  candle  flames,  wore across  his  shoulders  what  appeared to  be  one  of  a  pair  of  velour  porHUNGER


tieres,  woven  with  florid  designs  in red,  gold  and  black.  He  pointed  to the  shrouded  figure  on  the  trestleboard.

“This  is  a  princess  royal,”  he  ex¬ plained.  “Her  history  is  well known  to  Egyptologists.  Because she  refused  to  marry  her  own  brother, her  father  the  pharaoh  caused  her  to be  strangled,  and  her  body  denied  the sacred  rites  of  sepulture.  It  was embalmed,  but  thrust  into  the  dry vegetable  cellar  of  a  slave’s  house.  I bought  it  from  a  great  museum  of  art and  antiquities.  It  took  all  that  I had  saved  up  by  fifty  years  of  toil with  my  pen.  Before  the  Nile  grooved its  channel  to  the  sea,  it  was  written in  the  planets  that  I  should  perform this  thing.  But  I  can  not  accomplish it  alone.”

Heritage  gravely  nodded.  “What then  can  I  do?”

The  old  gentleman  handed  him  two candles,  which  he  had  lighted.

“You  shall  kneel  at  her  feet  while I  recite  the  essential  part  of  the  an¬ cient  rite,”  he  said;  and,  directly Heritage  had  kneeled,  he  began  rap¬ idly  to  intone  passages  from  the Book  of  the  Bead.

The  wavering  candle-light  served to  set  everything  in  the  still  room  in¬ to  fluidity.  The  shrouded  mummy seemed  to  breathe  rhythmically.  In the  far  comers  of  the  room  ludicrous shadows  leaped  and  gamboled.  Over Heritage’s  hands  ran  little  rivulets of  hot  wax ;  but  he  did  not  feel  them, famine  having  already  released  him from  the  tyranny  of  pain.

Abruptly,  the  voice  of  the  old  man ceased.  After  a  moment  he  said: “There  is  no  mummy  case.  That  I could  not  afford  to  buy.  So  I  have prepared  a  simple  cedar  box,  lined with  soft  silk,  outside  in  the  grave  I have  digged  for  her.  And  now  I must  lift  her  in  my  arms  and  take her  out;  but  this  is  sacrilege,  and  so, according  to  the  immutable  law  of  old Egypt,  you  my  acolyte  must  curse

me,  and  make  pretense  of  stoning me.”

Heritage  bowed.  It  seemed  to  him very  fitting  that  he  should  do  these things ;  and  he  carefully  set  down  the candles,  and  took  the  stone  that  was handed  him.

“May  the  gods  damn  your  soul  for sacrilege,”  he  said,  his  voice  thin and  high ;  and  then  he  feebly  cast  the stone  toward  the  old  man,  but  not  di¬ rectly  at  him.

It  struck  the  window  at  the  back  of the  room;  several  candles  were  over¬ turned,'  and  there  was  a  chuckle  of glass  as  one  pane  was  demolished.

From  the  black  night  there  entered through  the  broken  window-pane  two black  cats,  with  jade  eyes.  With  sol¬ emn  tread,  eyes  set  hard  ahead,  they passed  to  the  rude  trestle,  crouched, and  leaped  upon  it,  one  at  the  head, the  other  at  the  foot,  and  there  began ceremoniously  to  wash  their  faces, their  soot-black  paws  making  mysteri¬ ous  and  cabalistic  signs  like  the passes  of  a  necromancer  or  the  incan¬ tations  of  a  priest.

The  old  man  nodded.  “  It  is  well,  ’  ’ he  said ;  and  stooping,  lifted  the  light, dry  mummy  and  bore  it  from  the room  and  out  into  the  night,  fol¬ lowed  by  the  two  black  cats.

Heritage  was  left  alone  with  many candles,  and  the  incense  smoke  from a  cracked  saucer  upon  which  smol¬ dered  strange  gums  and  spices.

Presently,  since  the  old  man  did not  return,  he  opened  the  front  door and  passed  through  the  weed-choked garden  and  resumed  his  way  down the  turnpike,  now  lighted  faintly  by the  first  hint  of  dawn.  By  it  he  per¬ ceived  that  he  was  come  to  a  covered toll-bridge  spanning  a  river.  Men  had recently  been  at  work  restoring  its planking;  and  just  as  Heritage  was about  to  plunge  into  the  black  tunnel, his  eyes  made  out  the  fragments  of a  lunch  one  of  the  workmen  had  left behind.  There  were  dry  crusts,  the


WEIRD  TALES

fat  rind  of  a  slice  of  ham,  a  bit  of cheese.

With  a  little  sob  he  sank  upon  his knees  in  the  wet  grass  and  began  to

cram  the  morsels  into  his  avid  mouth.

And  as  he  swallowed  them  without chewing,  far  away  across  the  dark river  a  cock  challenged  the  dawn.

THE  ignorance  of  some  of  the medieval  painters,  even  those now  ranked  as  “masters,”  is astounding.  Tintoretto,  in  a  picture which  represents  the  Israelites  gath¬ ering  manna  in  the  desert,  has  armed them  with  guns ;  while  a  Dutch  paint¬ er  showed  Abraham  as  about  to  sac¬ rifice  Isaac  with  a  loaded  blunder¬ buss!  Brengheli,  another  Dutch painter,  in  a  picture  of  the  three Magi  from  the  East,  drew  the  Hin¬ doo  Wise  Man  in  a  full  white  sur¬ plice  with  boots  and  spurs  and  bear¬ ing  in  his  hand  as  a  present  to  the Holy  Child  a  model  of  a  Sixteenth Century  Dutch  warship.  Lanfranc showed  medieval  churchmen  in  their robes  at  the  feet  of  the  infant  Savior, and  Paul  Veronese  introduced  sev¬ eral  Benedictine  monks  among  the guests  at  the  marriage  feast  at  Cana of  Galilee.

An  altar-piece  painted  by  Chella delle  Puera,  in  a  church  at  Capua, representing  the  Annunciation, shows  the  Virgin  seated  in  a  rich armchair  of  crimson  velvet  with  gold flowers ;  a  cat  and  a  parrot  near  her seem  very  attentive  to  the  whole scene,  and  on  a  table  are  a  silver coffee-pot  and  cup.  A  later  Italian version  showed  the  Virgin  on  her knees  before  a  crucifix,  while  thrown

over  a  chair  are  a  number  of  elegant gowns;  near  by  is  a  cat  with  head turned  up  toward  the  angel,  appar¬ ently  listening  attentively  to  the  an¬ nouncement.  Another  artist  in  paint¬ ing  the  Crucifixion  shows  a  monkish confessor  holding  a  crucifix  up  be¬ fore  the  repentant  thief.

The  miracle  of  transubstantiation was  represented  on  an  altar-piece  at Worms  in  which  the  Virgin  throws Jesus  into  the  hopper  of  a  mill,  while from  the  other  side  He  issues, changed  into  little  morsels  of  bread, with  which  the  priests  feed  the  peo¬ ple.

Simon  Memmi,  a  Fourteenth  Cen¬ tury  artist  of  Sienna,  was  the  first  to show  speaking  scrolls  issuing  from the  mouths  of  his  figures,  a  practise which  afterward  became  common. On  one  of  his  paintings  the  devil,  al¬ most  exhausted  from  his  hot  pursuit by  a  saint,  exclaims,  despairingly, “ Oh !  Oh !  It  is  all  over  with  me!”

Paolo  Mazzocchi,  in  painting  the “four  elements”,  used  fish  to  repre¬ sent  the  sea,  moles  the  earth  and  a salamander  the  fire.  He  wished  to represent  the  air  by  a  chameleon; but  as  he  did  not  know  how  to  draw that  searce  animal,  he  drew  the  one whose  name  sounded  most  like  it — namely,  a  camel !

GIL  COUTEAU  sat  in  the warm  sunlight  of  the  court¬ yard  industriously  polishing his  long,  straight  sword.  It  was  a good  sword,  he  ruminated,  scraping industriously  at  the  dark  stain  which insisted  on  sticking  in  the  crevices  of the  scrollwork  hilt,  hut  it  was  becom¬ ing  thirsty  from  lack  of  use.  His superstitious  eye  seemed  to  detect some  subtle  lessening  of  the  keenness of  the  edge;  some  slight  dullness  in the  polish  of  the  blade  since  he  had used  it  almost  daily  against  the cursed  Saracens  in  Palestine.

With  the  sword  across  his  knees  he

leaned  back  against  the  wall  and  re¬ laxed  into  sleepy  comfort.  It  was good,  he  decided,  to  be  done  with wars,  and  with  slicing  heads  from  in¬ fidels;  it  was  good  to  be  in  Merrie England,  where  nothing  much  had happened  since  his  arrival;  it  was good  to  have  the  stout  walls  of  Castle Eandall  about  him,  and  a  teal  bed  to sleep  on  once  more.

With  half-closed  eyes  he  watched the  golden  flash  of  flies  across  the sunlight  and  listened  to  the  hum  of wasps  who  had  their  nest  somewhere up  the  tower.  Two  grooms  were asleep  against  the  stable  wall.  Two


WEIRD  TALES

more  were  trying  to  work  up  interest in  a  desultory  cockfight  near  the portcullis.  Ho  hum !  Life  was  good. His  head  nodded  forward  on  his breast.

He  was  awakened  by  a  ragged thunder  of  hoofs  upon  the  lowered drawbridge.  He  leaped  to  his  feet, all  his  sleepy  content  shattered,  as  a wild-eyed  horse  charged  into  the courtyard  and  plunged  to  a  stop  be¬ fore  him,  in  a  great  lather  of  sweat. From  its  back  slid  a  bleeding  bundle of  a  man  whom  he  recognized  as  the serf  Gomar.  “Oh,  sir,”  gabbled  this one,  in  a  mixture  of  Saxon  and  Eng¬ lish  which  Gil  still  found  hard  to  un¬ derstand,  “oh,  sir;  Lady  Constance! I  must  to  Lord  Robert.  Gray  Henry, the  Wolf,  has  stolen - ”

Without  pausing  to  finish,  the  serf started  into  the  castle  at  a  slouching, staggering  run,  and  Couteau  fol¬ lowed  him,  sword  in  hand.

They  found  Sir  Robert  Fitzgerald, lord  of  the  castle,  in  an  alcove  off  the main  hall.  He  was  dressed  in  a  dustcolored  robe,  like  the  priest  of  some occult  order,  and,  surrounded  by  an array  of  test-tubes  and  retorts,  was poring  over  a  huge  volume  as  they rushed  in.

He  leaped  to  his  feet,  however,  and strode  forward  with  a  step  which  be¬ lied  his  sixty-five  years.

“Oh,  sir,”  cried  the  serf,  throwing himself  at  the  old  man’s  feet,  “your daughter,  Lady  Constance,  has  been stolen - ”

“By  whom?”  thundered  Sir  Rob¬ ert,  jerking  him  to  his  feet  as  though the  burly  Saxon  had  been  a  feather.

“By  your  foster-brother,  Gray Henry,”  sobbed  the  man.

“Henry  the  Wolf,”  whispered  the old  man,  his  face  growing  pale  be¬ neath  his  long  beard.  “But  that’s impossible,”  he  cried,  shaking  the serf  savagely.  “She  had  three  menat-arms  with  her.  Where  are  they?”

“Dead!  We  were  put  upon  in  the forest,”  came  the  answer.

Sir  Robert  returned  slowly  to  his seat  behind  the  test-tubes.  He seemed  older — grayer.  “Call  my son  Brian,”  he  commanded  at  length. “This  matter  will  require  fighting, methinks.  Couteau,  stay  with  me.”

He  busied  himself  arranging  his apparatus  as  the  others  departed. “You  have  heard  of  my  fosterbrother  since  you  returned  with  us from  Palestine?”  he  finally  inquired.

“Merely  his  name,  sir,”  replied the  other,  “and  that  he  holds  Castle Bamecan,  up  the  river.”

“There  is  more  to  it  than  that,” said  Sir  Robert.  ‘  ‘  Henry  has  an  evil reputation.  He  dabbles  in  sorcery  as I  do  in  alchemy.  Perhaps  he  has  had more  success  th'an  I.  So  ’tis  said  by the  country-folk.”

He  paused,  paced  back  and  forth for  some  moments,  then  resumed: “You  have  heard  of  the  gray  wolf  of Bamecan?”

“Aye,  sir,  I  have  even  thought  a little  of  a  hunt  to  kill  it,  since  there is  nothing  else  to  do  here,  and  the wolf’s  deviltries  are  so  numerous.”

“  ’Tis  lucky  you  haven’t  tried, Gil,”  retorted  the  old  man  fiercely. “He  killed  my  uncle,  you  know,  and people  say — well  I  must  out  with  it — the  people  say  that  my  cursed  fosterbrother  is - ”

They  were  interrupted  by  a  clatter of  spurs  on  the  flagstones.  Young Brian,  heir  and  only  son  of  Sir Robert,  rushed  in.

“I  have  heard,  Father,”  he  cried. “Constance  has  been  stolen  by  that fiend.  Why  do  you  stand  there  so quietly?  Come!  We  must  find  her; we  must  storm  Castle  Bamecan  at once.”

He  looked  very  handsome  as  he stood  in  his  hunting  clothes,  for  he was  tall  and  blond  and  very,  very young,  or  at  least  so  it  seemed  to Couteau,  who  had  fought  seven  weary years  in  Palestine.

“Sir  Henry  is  too  strong  for  us, boy,”  reasoned  his  father.  “We

LOUP-GAROU


could  never  capture  the  castle.  We must  try  other  measures.  Let  us  ride at  once,  and  try  to  reason  with  him. I  have  known  for  years  that  he wished  to  marry  Constance  so  that  he might  have  a  claim  on  my  lands  at my  death,  but  I  never  thought  he would  try  this  scurvy  trick.  If  par¬ ley  fails  then  we  shall  try  other measures.”

Young  Brian  fumed  and  raged  at this,  but  he  was  no  fool,  so  that afternoon  the  three  of  them,  with fifty  yeomen  at  their  backs,  rode through  the  dense  forests  which  sep¬ arated  the  two  fiefs.  Toward  sunset they  halted  before  the  drawbridge  of Castle  Bamecan.  In  answer  to  a trumpet-blast  Sir  Henry  himself  ap¬ peared  at  a  turret,  but  made  no  offer to  lower  the  bridge.  *

“We  have  come  to  demand  Lady Constance  of  you,”  shouted  Brian.

‘  ‘  I  know  naught  of  her,  ’  ’  came  the answer  in  a  deep,  resonant  voice.  “I would  ask  you  to  enter,  but  the  draw¬ bridge  is  never  lowered  here  after sunset;  and  the  sun  is  almost  down.” He  turned  to  face  the  sinking  orb, which  was  gilding  him  and  the  castle with  a  lurid  glow.

“Then  you  refuse  to  give  us  news of  our  lady?”  shouted  Brian.

‘  ‘  I  have  said  I  know  naught  of  her. Is  not  that  enough,  young  sir?  Let you  come  again  tomorrow.  You  may examine  Castle  Bamecan  from  turret to  dungeon.  But  tonight,  I  regret  to say,  dear  nephew,  that  you  can  not enter.  Tomorrow  I  will  send  men into  the  forest  to  search  for  her,  since I  greatly  admire  Constance,  as  you well  know.  But  tonight  we  can  do nothing  in  the  dark.”

As  he  finished  speaking  the  sun sank  slowly  out  of  sight.  At  the same  time  Sir  Henry  turned  and strode  from  the  turret  without  a  fare¬ well,  leaving  his  visitors  hesitating on  the  edge  of  the  moat.

Brian  cursed  and  fumed  as  they

rode  back  through  the  dark  woods. His  horse,  which  felt  the  distress  of his  rider,  plunged  and  fretted.

At  last  Brian  pulled  to  a  halt. “Father,”  he  said  firmly,  “I  am  re¬ maining  here  tonight  to  watch  the castle.  God  knows  what  Gray  Henry may  try  to  do.  I  will  keep  Gomar with  me,  since  he  knows  the  country roundabout.  We  will  keep  a  watch together.  Come,”  he  called  to  the serf.  Together  they  wheeled  and  dis¬ appeared  into  the  dusk.

The  others  rode  in  silence.  The path  under  the  trees  grew  darker  at each  moment.  Besides  the  shuffle  of the  horses  over  the  fallen  leaves there  was  no  sound  except  now  and then  the  twitter  of  a  sleeping  bird,  or the  far-off  howling  of  a  lonely  wolf.

“I  like  it  not,  Gil,”  said  the knight,  drawing  his  horse  close  to that  of  the  Frenchman.  “I  would that  I  had  not  let  him  stay,  but  he  is his  father’s  son.  Ah,  I  wish  I  were twenty  years  younger!  Sir  Henry would  not  have  bearded  me  thus. Aye!”  he  cried  fiercely,  “and  he shall  not,  even  today.  I’m  not  a  do¬ tard  yet.  ’  ’

They  were  interrupted  by  the  con¬ certed  baying  of  several  wolves  which had  closed  in  upon  the  calvalcade. “A  pack  of  them — and  in  September, too,”  murmured  the  old  man,  noting the  gleaming  eyes  back  among  the trees.  Note  how  bold  they  are.  Truly, this  means  a  bleak  winter,  unless — unless - ”  He  grew  silent.

They  rode  on,  the  horses  nervous and  shivering  as  the  quavering  call  of the  pack  rose  about  them,  the  men-atarms  whispering  among  themselves; the  wolves  following  them  at  a  ju¬ dicious  distance,  until  the  gray towers  of  Randall  showed  against  the stars.

There  was  no  sleep  in  the  castle that  night,  but  a  hurried  prep¬ aration  for  battle.  Sir  Robert  real¬ ized  there  was  no  use  appealing  to


WEIRD  TALES

the  king  in  far-away  London,  and prepared  to  take  the  law  into  his  own hands,  although  he  well  knew  that Castle  Barnecan  was  better  gar¬ risoned  than  his  own  stronghold. Weapons  were  overhauled,  equip¬ ment  inspected  and  the  fighting  men given  instructions.

The  castle  had  sunk  into  compara¬ tive  quiet  at  sunrise,  but  was  imme¬ diately  roused  by  a  shouting  at  the drawbridge.  Rushing  to  a  turret they  saw  Gomar,  his  clothes  again  in ribbons,  clinging  to  his  horse’s  neck to  steady  himself  and  doing  his  best to  attract  the  attention  of  the guards.

The  bridge  was  lowered  and  he stumbled  over,  a  pitiful  figure,  his body  covered  with  long  scratches  and jagged  rents;  his  horse  a  lather  of sweat  and  blood,  almost  spent.

“Oh,  sir,”  he  babbled,  sinking down  at  the  knight’s  feet,  “again  I bring  bad  news.  Your  son  Brian  is dead.”

“How?”  croaked  Sir  Robert.

“By  the  wolves,”  wailed  the  man, shuddering  and  covering  his  faee with  his  hands.  ‘  ‘  Hundreds  of  them. Gray  devils!  We  had  no  ehance, though  we  killed  scores.  And  the great  gray  wolf  of  Barnecan  led them.  Oh  sir,  it  is  true  Gray  Henry is  a  werewolf,  or  a  devil !  The  great wolf  killed  Brian,  dragged  down  his horse,  and  tore  the  lad’s  throat  out as  I  watched.  I  fled — they  followed — miles  and  miles.  Oh  God!”  He collapsed  in  a  dead  faint.

There  was  a  hush  in  the  castle  that day.  All  had  loved  Brian.  Now  they waited  for  some  aetion  from  Sir Robert.  But  he  sat,  old  and  gray,  in his  alcove,  slowly  thumbing  the  pages of  his  books  on  alchemy  and  staring at  his  impotent  retorts.

At  last  he  roused  himself  and  sent for  Couteau.  “My  friend,”  he  said gently,  when  the  latter  appeared,  “I saved  your  life  once  in  Palestine.  I have  treated  you  as  my  foster-son

since  that  day.  You  swore  eternal devotion  to  me  then.  You  are  the only  hope  I  have  now,  and  I  ask  your aid.”

“Sir,”  replied  Gil,  “I  will  give  my life  gladly  to  help  you.  Also  you must  know  that  I  have  loved  Lady Constance  since  first  we  met.  There¬ fore  I  am  doubly  bound.  Command me.  ’  ’  He  stood,  tall  and  dark,  before Sir  Robert.

‘  ‘  I  would  that  we  might  storm  that cursed  castle,”  continued  the  old man,  “but  we  are  not  strong  enough to  try,  except  as  a  last  resort.  Be¬ sides,  many  whom  I  love  would  be killed.  Therefore,  let  us  use  strategy. Do  you  know  aught  of  werewolves?”

“A  little,”  replied  Gil  briefly. “They  are  called  loups-ganoux  in  my country.”

“Then  from  what  you  have  seen and  heard,  you  must  know  that  my foster-brother  seems  to  have  discov¬ ered  that  devilish  art  of  changing himself  into  a  wolf  at  will.”

“I  feared  as  much.”

“Listen  carefully,  then.  The nature  of  werewolves  is  such  that they  are  allied  to  the  powers  of  dark¬ ness.  Therefore  they  can  never  ap¬ pear  in  the  light.  One  imbued  with such  powers,  therefore,  can,  and  at last  must,  change  into  the  wolfish form  at  sundown — but — and  here  is what  I  wish  you  to  remember,  my son — he  must  change  back  into  his normal  shape  again  at  sunrise.”

“So  I  have  heard.”

“One  thing  more.  Gray  Henry had  the  fingers  of  his  right  hand  in¬ jured  years  ago  in  the  wars.  This makes  it  hard  for  him  to  wield  a sword,  though  on  account  of  his  giant stature  no  man  could  stand  against him  in  his  youth.

“Think  well  over  these  things,  my boy,  and  do  as  you  think  best,  but remember  that  the  werewolf  has killed  my  unde  and  now  my  son,  two of  the  best  swordsmen  of  the country.  ’  *

LOUP-GAEOU


That  afternoon  Gil  Couteau  sat again  in  the  courtyard  with  his sword  across  his  knees  while  the  peo¬ ple  of  the  castle  stared  wonderingly at  his  set  face  and  fixed  expression.

At  sunset,  when  the  shadows  were creeping  out  of  the  forest  and  when the  howling  of  the  wolves,  with  which the  countryside  seemed  alive,  had  set the  teeth  of  every  man  in  the  castle chattering  with  vague  but  awful horror,  he  strapped  his  long  sword across  his  back,  untied  a  skiff  at  the riverside  and  rowed  slowly  away  to¬ ward  Bamecan.

Dawn  was  faintly  streaking  the sky  when  he  reached  his  destination. The  fortress  rose  steeply  out  of  the river  on  one  side,  but  the  stones  of which  it  was  built  were  so  roughly laid  that  it  was  easy  for  him  to  tie the  boat  securely.  Feeling  his  way inch  by  inch,  he  crept  up  the  steep wall.  There  were  ivy  and  a  few  win¬ dow-slits  to  help  him,  but  many  times he  was  forced  to  retrace  part  of  his way,  thinking  each  move  would  be his  last.

His  fingers  were  torn  and  bleeding ; his  limbs  ached  as  though  he  had  been on  a  torture-rack,  when  at  last  he arrived  at  an  embrasure  for  which he  had  been  making  since  he  had  seen a  light  gleaming  dully  there  as  he approached  the  stronghold.

Carefully  he  raised  his  eyes  above the  bottom  of  the  slit  and  peered within.  What  he  saw  there  set  his heart  thumping,  half  with  terror, half  anger.  On  a  stool  in  one  comer of  a  small  bare  room  crouched  Lady Constance,  her  clothing  tom  and  di¬ sheveled  ;  her  blond  curls  bloodsmeared  and  tangled.

At  the  other  side  of  the  room,  be¬ fore  the  door,  crouched  a  gigantic gray  wolf.  Couteau  felt  his  scalp stir  as  he  looked,  for  this  was  some¬ thing  uncanny;  something  dreadful that  chilled  his  French  blood,  though he  had  heard  of  such  horrors  since his  childhood.

Occasionally  the  beast  would  rise and  pace  stealthily  back  and  forth before  the  door,  walking  with  a  slight limp  of  the  right  front  leg,  he noticed,  and  at  such  times  its  head was  fully  five  feet  above  the  floor. Then  it  would  stop,  and,  sitting  on its  haunches,  leer  wickedly  at  the crouching  girl,  but  never  approach her.

Wondering  at  this,  Gil  looked  at her  again,  and  saw  that  she  held against  her  breast  a  needlelike  dag¬ ger,  ready  to  press  it  home,  should the  beast  come  nearer.  He  felt  his heart  swell  with  pride  in  her,  at  her brave  spirit  and  fearless  courage.

It  was  quite  light  now,  and  daring to  wait  no  longer,  Gil  loosened  his sword  and  squeezed  himself  through the  embrasure  as  quickly  as  the  nar¬ row  space  permitted..  Quick  as  he was,  the  monster  had  heard  him,  and was  upon  him  instantly  as  he  leaped to  the  floor.  Then  began  a  struggle, the  remembrance  of  which  would sometimes,  even  years  later,  wake Couteau  from  sleep,  sweating  with terror.

It  was  like  no  fight  he  had  ever had,  nor  was  it  like  the  wolf -hunts and  boar-stickings  in  which  he  had taken  part.  The  loup-garou  fought with  human  intelligence,  dodging Gil’s  swordthrusts  with  the  speed  of light,  and  always,  always,  parrying for  a  leap  at  his  throat,  which,  if successful,  would  mean  an  instant end  to  the  battle.

Gil ’s  long  sword  was  almost  an  im¬ pediment  in  that  crowded  space.  He longed  for  a  dagger  as  he  felt  himself slowly  but  surely  giving  ground  be¬ fore  the  plunges  of 'the  werewolf. Then,  almost  before  he  was  aware, the  end  came.  He  aimed  a  slashing stroke  at  the  animal’s  neck,  just where  it  joined  the  shoulders,  but  the other,  with  an  almost  impossible  con¬ tortion,  jerked  itself  out  of  the  way,


WEIRD  TALES

and  the  already-battered  blade,  strik¬ ing  the  tiles  of  the  floor,  snapped short  off.

In  the  same  breath  the  devil  was on  him,  hurling  him  to  the  floor  and worrying  at  his  arm,  which  he  had flung  up  to  protect  his'  throat.  The slavering  fangs  were  but  a  few  inches away;  he  knew  that  his  time  was short  and/  that  sunrise  would  come too  late.

At  that  moment  he  heard  a  wild scream.  Lady  Constance,  who  had been  crouched  paralyzed  with  fear,  in a  comer,  sprang  forward,  and  pick¬ ing  up  the  stool,  brought  it  down upon  the  beast’s  head  with  all  her force.

The  animal  howled  with  pain,  and reeled  away,  allowing  Gil  to  retain his  feet  and — the  first  rays  of  the  sun passed  through  the  embrasure,  splash¬ ing  the  chamber-wall  with  pale  gold — like  a  blessing — like  an  aureole — Gil thought.

He  turned  toward  the  wolf  and stood  staring,  for  a  monstrous  change was  taking  place.  The  animal’s  out¬ line  seemed  to  blur,  just  as  when strong  sunlight  strikes  a  translucent vase  and  changes  its  color  and  struc¬ ture.  The  thing’s  fur  disappeared, its  snout  shortened  and  ran  together, it  staggered  upright,  and,  as  the Frenchman  watched  spellbound,  the blur  again  coalesced  into  the  figure of  Gray  Henry,  the  knight  whom  he had  seen  at  the  turret  two  days  be¬ fore.  But  a  Gray  Henry  naked  and

unarmed,  still  almost  stunned  by  the blow  and  the  agony  of  his  metamor¬ phosis.

Gil  did  not  wait  for  him  to  recover but  grappled  again.  This  time  the fight  was  not  unequal.  Gray  Henry, although  strong  and  agile,  was  no match  for  the  younger  man,  who  had spent -much  of  his  spare  time  in  Pal¬ estine  wrestling,  and  who  now  gave thanks  for  some  things  he  had learned  from  Saracen  prisoners.

Shifting  from  grip  to  grip  on  the writhing  body,  he  at  last  slipped  both his  arms  under  his  antagonist’s  arms from  behind,  and,  clasping  his  hands behind  the  other’s  head,  exerted  a steady,  ever-growing  pressure.  The werewolf  fought  valiantly,  but  could not  break  the  hold.  At  last  he  tried to  shout  for  help,  but  Gil  forced  his head  forward,  so  that  only  a  low moaning  was  heard.  Another  effort! There  was  a  loud  crack,  like  the snapping  of  a  dry  stick,  and  his  op¬ ponent  rolled  loosely  to  the  floor,  his neck  broken.

Of  how  Gil  rescued  Lady  Con¬ stance  and  returned  with  her  to Castle  Randall,  there  is  little  more  to tell.  They  arrived  safely,  and  that ladies  in  distress  are  always  gracious towarcf  their  protectors  is  well  known.

Gil  Couteau  one  day  became  master of  Castle  Randall,  and  a  very  worthy knight  in  his  own  right,  but  his greatest  feat,  so  he  sometimes  said, was  a  certain  battle  with  the  devil.

YOU  needn’t  think  I’m  crazy, Eliot — plenty  of  others  have queerer  prejudices  than  this. Why  don’t  you  laugh  at  Oliver’s grandfather,  who  won’t  ride  in  a motor?  If  I  don’t  like  that  damned subway,  it’s  my  own  business;  and we  got  here  more  quickly  anyhow  in the  taxi.  We’d  have  had  to  walk  up the  hill  from  Park  Street  if  we’d taken  the  car.

I  know  I’m  more  nervous  than  I was  when  you  saw  me  last  year,  but you  don’t  need  to  hold  a  clinic  over it.  There’s  plenty  of  reason,  God knows,  and  I  fancy  I’m  lucky  to  be sane  at  all.  Why  the  third  degree? You  didn’t  use  to  be  so  inquisitive.

Well,  if  you  must  hear  it,  I  don’t know  why  you  shouldn’t.  Maybe  you ought  to,  anyhow,  for  you  kept  writ¬

ing  me  like  a  grieved  parent  when you  heard  I’d  begun  to  cut  the  Art Club  and  keep  away  from  Pickman. Now  that  he’s  disappeared  I  go around  to  the  club  once  in  a  while, but  my  nerves  aren’t  what  they  were.

No,  I  don’t  know  what’s  become  of Pickman,  and  I  don’t  like  to  guess. You  might  have  surmised  I  had  some inside  information  when  I  dropped him — and  that’s  why  I  don’t  want  to think  where  he’s  gone.  Let  the  police find  what  they  can — it  won’t  be  much, judging  from  the  fact  that  they  don’t know  yet  of  the  old  North  End  place he  hired  under  the  name  of  Peters. I’m  not  sure  that  I  could  find  it  again myself — not  that  I’d  ever  try,  even in  broad  daylight!  Yes,  I  do  know, or  am  afraid  I  know,  why  he  main¬ tained  it.  I’m  coming  to  that.  And


WEIRD  TALES

I  think  you’ll  understand  before I’m  through  why  I  don’t  tell  the  po¬ lice.  They  would  ask  me  to  guide them,  but  I  couldn’t  go  back  there even  if  I  knew  the  way.  There  was something  there — and  now  I  can’t  use the  subway  or  (and  you  may  as  well have  your  laugh  at  this,  too)  go  down into  cellars  any  more.

I  should  think  you’d  have  known I  didn’t  drop  Pickman  for  the  same silly  reasons  that  fussy  old  women like  Dr.  Reid  or  Joe  Minot  or  Bosworth  did.  Morbid  art  doesn’t  shock me,  and  when  a  man  has  the  genius Pickman  had  I  feel  it  an  honor  to know  him,  no  matter  what  direction his  work  takes.  Boston  never  had  a greater  painter  than  Richard  Upton Pickman.  I  said  it  at  first  and  I  say it  still,  and  I  never  swerved  an  inch, either,  when  he  showed  that  Ghoul Feeding.  That,  you  remember,  was when  Minot  cut  him.

You  know,  it  takes  profound  art and  profound  insight  into  nature  to turn  out  stuff  like  Pickman ’s.  Any magazine-cover  hack  can  splash  paint around  wildly  and  call  it  a  nightmare or  Witches’  Sabbath  or  a  portrait  of the  devil,  but  only  a  great  painter  can make  such  a  thing  really  scare  or  ring true.  That’s  because  only  a  real  art¬ ist  knows  the  actual  anatomy  of  the terrible  or  the  physiology  of  fear — the  exact  sort  of  lines  and  propor¬ tions  that  connect  up  with  latent  in¬ stincts  or  hereditary  memories  of fright,  and  the  proper  color  contrasts and  lighting  effects  to  stir  the  dor¬ mant  sense  of  strangeness.  I  don’t have  to  tell  you  why  a  Fuseli  really brings  a  shiver  while  a  cheap  ghoststory  frontispiece  merely  makes  us laugh.  There’s  something  those  fel¬ lows  catch — beyond  life — that  they’re able  to  make  us  catch  for  a  second. Dore  had  it.  Sime  has  it.  Angarola of  Chicago  has  it.  And  Pickman  had it  as  no  man  ever  had  it  before  or — I  hope  to  heaven — ever  will  again.

Don’t  ask  me  what  it  is  they  see.

You  know,  in  ordinary  art,  there’s  all the  difference  in  the  world  between the  vital,  breathing  things  drawn from  nature  or  models  and  the  arti¬ ficial  truck  that  commercial  small  fry reel  off  in  a  bare  studio  by  rule. Well,  I  should  say  that  the  really weird  artist  has  a  kind  of  vision which  makes  models,  or  summons  up what  amounts  to  actual  scenes  from the  spectral  world  he  lives  in.  Any¬ how,  he  manages  to  turn  out  results that  differ  from  the  pretender’s mince-pie  dreams  in  just  about  the same  way  that  the  life  painter’s  re¬ sults  differ  from  the  concoctions  of  a correspondence-school  cartoonist.  If I  had  ever  seen  what  Pickman  saw — but  no!  Here,  let’s  have  a  drink  be¬ fore  we  get  any  deeper.  Gad,  I wouldn’t  be  alive  if  I’d  ever  seen what  that  man — if  he  was  a  man — saw!

You  recall  that  Pickman ’s  forte was  faces.  I  don’t  believe  anybody since  Goya  could  put  so  much  of sheer  hell  into  a  set  of  features  or  a twist  of  expression.  And  before Goya  you  have  to  go  back  to  the medieval  chaps  who  did  the  gargoyles and  chimeras  on  Notre  Dame  and Mont1  Saint-Michel.  They  believed all  sorts  of  things — and  maybe  they saw  all  sorts  of  things,  too,  for  the Middle  Ages  had  some  curious phases.  I  remember  your  asking Pickman  yourself  once,  the  year  be¬ fore  you  went  away,  wherever  in thunder  he  got  such  ideas  and  vis¬ ions.  Wasn’t  that  a  nasty  laugh  he gave  you?  It  was  partly  because  of that  laugh  that  Reid  dropped  him. Reid,  you  know,  had  just  taken  up comparative  pathology,  and  was  full of  pompous  “inside  stuff”  about  the biological  or  evolutionary  significance of  this  or  that  mental  or  physical symptom.  He  said  Pickman  repelled him  more  and  more  every  day,  and almost  frightened  him  toward  the last — that  the  fellow’s  features  and expression  were  slowly  developing  in

PICKMAN ’S  MODEL


a  way  he  didn’t  like;  in  a  way  that wasn’t  human.  He  had  a  lot  of  talk about  diet,  and  said  Pickman  must be  abnormal  and  eccentric  to  the  last degree.  I  suppose  you  told  Reid,  if you  and  he  had  any  correspondence over  it,  that  he’d  let  Pickman ’s  paint¬ ings  get  on  his  nerves  or  harrow  up his  imagination.  I  know  I  told  him that  myself — then.

But  keep  in  mind  that  I  didn’t drop  Pickman  for  anything  like  this. On  the  contrary,  my  admiration  for him  kept  growing;  for  that  Ghoul Feeding  was  a  tremendous  achieve¬ ment.  As  you  know,  the  club wouldn’t  exhibit  it,  and  the  Museum of  Pine  Arts  wouldn’t  accept  it  as  a gift;  and  I  can  add  that  nobody would  buy  it,  so  Pickman  had  it right  in  his  house  till  he  went.  Now his  father  has  it  in  Salem — you  know Pickman  comes  of  old  Salem  stock, and  had  a  witch  ancestor  hanged  in 1692.

I  got  into  the  habit  of  calling  on Pickman  quite  often,  especially after  I  began  making  notes  for  a monograph  on  weird  art  Probably it  was  his  work  which  put  the  idea into  my  head,  and  anyhow,  I  found him  a  mine  of  data  and  suggestions when  I  came  to  develop  it.  He showed  me  all  the  paintings  and drawings  he  had  about;  including some  pen-and-ink  sketches  that would,  I  verily  believe,  have  got  him kicked  out  of  the  club  if,  many  of  the members  had  seen  them.  Before  long I  was  pretty  nearly  a  devotee,  and would  listen  for  hours  like  a  school¬ boy  to  art  theories  and  philosophic speculations  wild  enough  to  qualify him  for  the  Danvers  asylum.  My hero-worship,  coupled  with  the  fact that  people  generally  were  com¬ mencing  to  have  less  and  less  to  do with  him,  made  him  get  very  confi¬ dential  with  me;  and  one  evening  he hinted  that  if  I  were  fairly  elosemoutlied  and  none  too  squeamish,  he

might  show  me  something  rather  un¬ usual — something  a  bit  stronger  than anything  he  had  in  the  house.

“You  know,”  he  said,  “there  are things  that  won’t  do  for  Marlborough Street — things  that  are  out  of  place here,  and  that  can’t  be  conceived here,  anyhow.  It’s  my  business  to catch  the  overtones  of  the  soul,  and you  won’t  find  those  in  a  parvenu set  of  artificial  streets  on  made  land. Back  Bay  isn’t  Boston — it  isn’t  any¬ thing  yet,  because  it ’s  had  no  time  to pick  up  memories  and  attract  local spirits.  If  there  are  any  ghosts  here, they’re  the  tame  ghosts  of  a  salt marsh  and  a  shallow  cove ;  and  I want  human  ghosts — the  ghosts  of beings  highly  organized  enough  to have  looked  on  hell  and  known  the meaning  of  what  they  saw.

“The  place  for  an  artist  to  love  is the  North  End.  If  any  esthete  were sincere,  he’d  put  up  with  the  slums for  the  sake  of  the  massed  traditions. God,  man!  Don’t  you  realize  that places  like  that  weren’t  merely  made, but  actually  grew?  Generation  after generation  lived  and  felt  and  died there,  and  in  days  when  people weren’t  afraid  to  live  and  feel  and die.  Don’t  you  know  there  was  a  mill on  Copp’s  Hill  in  1632,  and  that  half the  present  streets  were  laid  out  by 1650?  I  can  show  you  houses  that have  stood  two  centuries  and  a  half and  more ;  houses  that  have  witnessed what  would  make  a  modern  house crumble  into  powder.  What  do  mod¬ erns  know  of  life  and  the  forces  be¬ hind  it?  You  call  the  Salem  witch¬ craft  a  delusion,  but  I’ll  wager  my four-times-great-grandmother  could have  told  you  things.  They  hanged her  on  Gallows  Hill,  with  Cotton Mather  looking  sanctimoniously  on. Mather,  damn  him,  was  afraid  some¬ body  might  succeed  in  kicking  free of  this  accursed  cage  of  monotony — I  wish  someone  had  laid  a  spell  on him  or  sucked  his  blood  in  the  night  f


WEIRD  TALES

“I  can  show  you  a  house  he  lived in,  and  I  can  show  you  another  one he  was  afraid  to  enter  in  spite  of  all his  fine  bold  talk..  He  knew  things he  didn’t  dare  put  into  that  stupid Magnolia  or  that  puerile  Wonders  of the  Invisible  World.  Look  here,  do you  know  the  whole  North  End  once had  a  set  of  tunnels  that  kept  certain people  in  touch  with  eaeh  other’s houses,  and  the  burying  ground,  and the  sea?  Let  them  prosecute  and persecute  above  ground — things  went on  every  day  that  they  couldn’t reach,  and  voices  laughed  at  night that  they  couldn’t  place!

“Why,  man,  out  of  ten  surviving houses  built  before  1700  and  not moved  since  I’ll  wager  that  in  eight I  can  show  you  something  queer  in the  cellar.  There’s  hardly  a  month that  you  don’t  read  of  workmen finding  bricked-up  arches  and  wells leading  nowhere  in  this  or  that  old place  as  it  comes  down — you  could see  one  near  Henchman  Street  from the  elevated  last  year.  There  were witches  and  what  their  spells  sum¬ moned  ;  pirates  and  what  they brought  in  from  the  sea;  smugglers; privateers — and  I  tell  you,  people knew  how  to  live,  and  how  to  enlarge the  bounds  of  life,  in  the  old  times! This  wasn’t  the  only  world  a  bold and  wise  man  could  know — faugh! And  to  think  of  today  in  contrast, with  such  pale-pink  brains  that  even a  club  of  supposed  artists  gets  shud¬ ders  and  convulsions  if  a  picture goes  beyond  the  feelings  of  a  Beacon Street  tea-table!

“The  only  saving  grace  of  the present  is  that  it’s  too  damned  stupid to  question  the  past  very  closely. What  do  maps  and  records  and guidebooks  really  tell  of  the  North End?  Bah!  At  a  guess  I’ll  guaran¬ tee  to  lead  you  to  thirty  or  forty alleys  and  networks  of  alleys  north  of Prince  Street  that  aren’t  suspected by  ten  living  beings  outside  of  the foreigners  that  swarm  them.  And

what  do  those  Dagoes  know  of  their meaning?  No,  Thurber,  these  an¬ cient  places  are  dreaming  gorgeously and  overflowing  with  wonder  and terror  and  escapes  from  the  common¬ place,  and  yet  there’s  not  a  living soul  to  understand  or  profit  by them.  Or,  rather,  there’s  only  one living  soul — for  I  haven’t  been  dig¬ ging  around  in  the  past  for  nothing !

“See  here,  you’re  interested  in  this sort  of  thing.  What  if  I  told  you that  I’ve  got  another  studio  up  there, where  I  can  catch  the  night-spirit  of antique  horror  and  paint  things  that I  couldn’t  even  think  of  in  Marl¬ borough  Street?  Naturally  I  don’t tell  those  cursed  old  maids  at  the  club — with  Reid,  damn  him,  whispering even  as  it  is  that  I’m  a  sort  of  mon¬ ster  bound  down  the  toboggan  of  re¬ verse  evolution.  Yes,  Thurber,  I decided  long  ago  that  one  must  paint terror  as  well  as  beauty  from  life,  so I  did  some  exploring  in  places  where I  had  reason  to  know  terror  lives.

“I’ve  got  a  plaee  that  I  don’t  be¬ lieve  three  living  Nordic  men  besides myself  have  ever  seen.  It  isn’t  so very  far  from  the  elevated  as  dis¬ tance  goes,  but  it’s  centuries  away  as the  soul  goes.  I  took  it  because  of the  queer  old  brick  well  in  the  cellar — one  of  the  sort  I  told  you  about. The  shack’s  almost  tumbling  down, so  that  nobody  else  would  live  there, and  I’d  hate  to  tell  you  how  little  I pay  for  it.  The  windows  are  boarded up,  but  I  like  that  all  the  better, since  I  don’t  want  daylight  for  what I  do.  I  paint  in  the  cellar,  where  the inspiration  is  thickest,  but  I’ve  other rooms  furnished  on  the  ground  floor. A  Sicilian  owns  it,  and  I’ve  hired  it under  the  name  of  Peters.

“Now  if  you’re  game,  I’ll  take  you there  tonight.  I  think  you’d  enjoy the  pictures,  for  as  I  said,  I’ve  let myself  go  a  bit  there.  It’s  no  vast tour — I  sometimes  do  it  on  foot,  for I  don ’t  want  to  attract  attention  with a  taxi  in  such  a  place.  We  can  take

PICKMAN’S  MODEL


the  shuttle  at  the  South  Station  for Battery  Street,  and  after  that  the walk  isn’t  much.”

VX/Tell,  Eliot,  there  wasn’t  much for  me  to  do  after  that  ha¬ rangue  but  to  keep  myself  from  run¬ ning  instead  of  walking  for  the  first vacant  cab  we  could  sight.  We changed  to  the  elevated  at  the  South Station,  and  at  about  12  o’clock  had climbed  down  the  steps  at  Battery Street  and  struck  along  the  old waterfront  past  Constitution  Wharf. I  didn’t  keep  track  of  the  cross streets,  and  can’t  tell  you  yet  which it  was  we  turned  up,  but  I  know  it wasn’t  Greenough  Lane.

When  we  did  turn,  it  was  to  climb through  the  deserted  length  of  the oldest  and  dirtiest  alley  I  ever  saw  in my  life,  with  crumbling-looking gables,  broken  small-paned  windows, and  archaic  chimneys  that  stood  out half-disintegrated  against  the  moon¬ lit  sky.  I  don’t  believe  there  were three  houses  in  sight  that  hadn ’t  been standing  in  Cotton  Mather’s  time — certainly  I  glimpsed  at  least  two with  an  overhang,  and  once  I  thought I  saw  a  peaked  roof -line  of  the  almost forgotten  pre-gambrel  type,  though antiquarians  tell  us  there  are  none left  in  Boston.

From  that  alley,  which  had  a  dim light,  we  turned  to  the  left  into  an equally  silent  and  still  narrower  alley with  no  light  at  all ;  and  in  a  minute made  what  I  think  was  an  obtuseangled  bend  toward  the  right  in  the dark.  Not  long  after  this  Pickman produced  a  flashlight  and  revealed  an antediluvian  ten-paneled  door  that looked  damnably  worm-eaten.  Un¬ locking  it,  he  ushered  me  into  a  bar¬ ren  hallway  with  what  was  once splendid  dark-oak  paneling — simple, of  course,  but  thrillingly  suggestive of  the  times  of  Andros  and  Phips and  the  Witchcraft.  Then  he  took me  through  a  door  on  the  left,  lighted

an  oil  lamp,  and  told  me  to  make  my¬ self  at  home.

Now,  Eliot,  I’m  what  the  man  in the  street  would  call  fairly  “hardboiled,”  but  I’ll  confess  that  what  I saw  on  the  walls  of  that  room  gave me  a  bad  turn.  They  were  his  pic¬ tures,  you  know — the  ones  he couldn’t  paint  or  even  show  in  Marl¬ borough  Street — and  he  was  right when  he  said  he  had  “let  himself go.”  Here — have  another  drink — I need  one  anyhow!

There’s  no  use  in  my  trying  to  tell you  what  they  were  like,  because  the awful,  the  blasphemous  horror,  and the  unbelievable  loathsomeness  and moral  fetor  came  from  simple touches  quite  beyond  the  power  of words  to  classify.  There  was  none  of the  exotic  technique  you  see  in  Sid¬ ney  Sime,  none  of  the  trans-Satumian  landscapes  and  lunar  fungi  that Clark  Ashton  Smith  uses  to  freeze the  blood.  The  backgrounds  were mostly  old  churchyards,  deep  woods, cliffs  by  the  sea,  brick  tunnels,  an¬ cient  paneled  rooms,  or  simple  vaults of  masonry.  Copp’s  Hill  Burying Ground,  which  could  not  be  many blocks  away  from  this  very  house, was  a  favorite  scene.

The  madness  and  monstrosity  lay in  the  figures  in  the  foreground — for Pickman ’s  morbid  art  was  pre¬ eminently  one  of  demoniac  portrait¬ ure.  These  figures  were  seldom  com¬ pletely  human,  but  often  approached humanity  in  varying  degrees.  Most of  the  bodies,  while  roughly  bipedal, had  a  forward  slumping,  and  a vaguely  canine  cast.  The  texture  of the  majority  was  a  kind  of  unpleas¬ ant  rubberiness.  Ugh!  I  can  see them  now!  Their  occupations — well, don’t  ask  me  to  be  too  precise.  They were  usually  feeding — I  won ’t  say  on what.  They  were  sometimes  shown in  groups  in  cemeteries  or  under¬ ground  passages,  and  often  appeared to  be  in  battle  over  their  prey — or rather,  their  treasure-trove.  And


WEIRD  TALES

what  damnable  expressiveness  Pickman  sometimes  gave  the  sightless faces  of  this  charnel  booty!  Occas¬ ionally  the  things  were  shown  leaping through  open  windows  at  night,  or squatting  on  the  chests  of  sleepers, worrying  at  their  throats.  One  can¬ vas  showed  a  ring  of  them  baying about  a  hanged  witch  on  Gallows Hill,  whose  dead  face  held  a  close kinship  to  theirs.

But  don’t  get  the  idea  that  it  was all  this  hideous  business  of  theme and  setting  which  struck  me  faint. I’m  not  a  three-year-old  kid,  and  I’d seen  much  like  this  before.  It  was the  faces,  Eliot,  those  accursed  faces, that  leered  and  slavered  out  of  the canvas  with  the  very  breath  of  life! By  God,  man,  I  verily  believe  they were  alive!  That  nauseous  wizard had  waked  the  fires  of  hell  in  pig¬ ment,  and  his  brush  had  been  a  night¬ mare-spawning  wand.  Give  me  that decanter,  Eliot!

There  was  one  thing  called  The Lesson — heaven  pity  me,  that  I  ever saw  it!  Listen — can  you  fancy  a squatting  circle  of  nameless  doglike things  in  a  churchyard  teaching  a small  child  how  to  feed  like  them¬ selves?  The  price  of  a  changeling,  I suppose — you  know  the  old  myth about  how  the  weird  people  leave their  spawn  in  cradles  in  exchange for  the  human  babes  they  steal. Pickman  was  showing  what  happens to  those  stolen  babes — how  they  grow up — and  then  I  began  to  see  a  hid¬ eous  relationship  in  the  faces  of  the human  and  non-human  figures.  He was,  in  all  his  gradations  of  morbid¬ ity  between  the  frankly  non-human and  the  degradedly  human,  establish¬ ing  a  sardonic  linkage  and  evolution. The  dog-things  were  developed  from mortals !

And  no  sooner  had  I  wondered what  he  made  of  their  own  young  as left  with  mankind  in  the  form  of changelings,  than  my  eye  caught  a picture  embodying  that  very  thought.

It  was  that  of  an  ancient  Puritan  in¬ terior — a  heavily  beamed  room  with lattice  windows,  a  settle,  and  clumsy Seventeenth  Century  furniture,  with the  family  sitting  about  while  the father  read  from  the  Scriptures. Every  face  but  one  showed  nobility and  reverence,  but  that  one  reflected the  mockery  of  the  pit.  It  was  that of  a  young  man  in  years,  and  no doubt  belonged  to  a  supposed  son  of that  pious  father,  but  in  essence  it was  the  kin  of  the  unclean  things.  It was  their  changeling — and  in  a  spirit of  supreme  irony  Pickman  had  given the  features  a  very  perceptible  re¬ semblance  to  his  own.

By  this  time  Pickman  had  lighted a  lamp  in  an  adjoining  room  and  was politely  holding  open  the  door  for me ;  asking  me  if  I  would  care  to  see his  “modem  studies”.  I  hadn’t been  able  to  give  him  much  of  my opinions — I  was  too  speechless  with fright  and  loathing — but  I  think  he fully  understood  and  felt  highly complimented.  And  now  I  want  to assure  you  again,  Eliot,  that  I’m  no mollycoddle  to  scream  at  anything which  shows  a  bit  of  departure  from the  usual.  I’m  middle-aged  and decently  sophisticated,  and  I  guess you  saw  enough  of  me  in  France  to know  I’m  not  easily  knocked  out. Remember,  too,  that  I’d  just  about recovered  my  wind  and  gotten  used to  those  frightful  pictures  which turned  colonial  New  England  into  a kind  of  annex  of  hell.  Well,  in  spite of  all  this,  that  next  room  forced  a real  scream  out  of  me,  and  I  had  to clutch  at  the  doorway  to  keep  from keeling  over.  The  other  chamber  had shown  a  pack  of  ghouls  and  witches overrunning  the  world  of  our  fore¬ fathers,  but  this  one  brought  the horror  right  into  our  own  daily  life !

Gad,  how  that  man  could  paint! There  was  a  study  called  Subway Accident,  in  which  a  flock  of  the  vile things  were  clambering  up  from some  unknown  catacomb  through  a

PICKMAN ’S  MODEL


crack  in  the  floor  of  the  Boylston Street  subway  and  attacking  a  crowd of  people  on  the  platform.  Another showed  a  dance  on  Copp’s  Hill among  the  tombs  with  the  back¬ ground  of  today.  Then  there  were any  number  of  cellar  views,  with monsters  creeping  in  through  holes and  rifts  in  the  masonry  and  grin¬ ning  as  they  squatted  behind  barrels or  furnaces  and  waited  for  their  first victim  to  descend  the  stairs.

One  disgusting  canvas  seemed  to depict  a  vast  cross-section  of  Beacon Hill,  with  antlike  armies  of  the mephitic  monsters  squeezing  them¬ selves  through  burrows  that  honey¬ combed  the  ground.  Dances  in  the modern  cemeteries  were  freely  pic¬ tured,  and  another  conception  some¬ how  shocked  me  more  than  all  the rest — a  scene  in  an  unknown  vault, where  scores  of  the  beasts  crowded about  one  who  held  a  well-known Boston  guidebook  and  was  evidently reading  aloud.  All  were  pointing  to a  certain  passage,  and  every  face seemed  so  distorted  with  epileptic  and reverberant  laughter  that  I  almost thought  I  heard  the  fiendish  echoes. The  title  of  the  picture  was,  Holmes, Lowell,  and  Longfellow  Lie  Buried in  Mount  Auburn.

As  I  gradually  steadied  myself  and got  readjusted  to  this  second  room  of deviltry  and  morbidity,  I  began  to analyze  some  of  the  points  in  my sickening  loathing.  In  the  first place,  I  said  to  myself,  these  things repelled  because  of  the  utter  inhu¬ manity  and  callous  cruelty  they showed  in  Pickman.  The  fellow  must be  a  relentless  enemy  of  all  mankind to  take  such  glee  in  the  torture  of brain  and  flesh  and  the  degradation of  the  mortal  tenement.  In  the  sec¬ ond  place,  they  terrified,  because  of their  very  greatness.  Their  art  was the  art  that  convinced — when  we saw  the  pictures  we  saw  the  demons themselves  and  were  afraid  of  them. And  the  queer  part  was,  that  Pickman  got  none  of  his  power  from  the use  of  selectiveness  or  bizarrerie. Nothing  was  blurred,  distorted,  or conventionalized ;  outlines  were  sharp and  lifelike,  and  details  were  almost painfully  defined.  And  the  faces !

It  was  not  any  mere  artist’s  in¬ terpretation  that  we  saw ;  it  was pandemonium  itself,  crystal-clear  in stark  objectivity.  That  was  it,  by heaven!  The  man  was  not  a  fantaisiste  or  romanticist  at  all — he  did not  even  try  to  give  us  the  churning, prismatic  ephemera  of  dreams,  but coldly  and  sardonically  reflected some  stable,  mechanistic,  and  wellestablished  horror-world  which  he saw  fully,  brilliantly,  squarely,  and unfalteringly.  God  knows  what  that world  can  have  been,  or  where  he ever  glimpsed  the  blasphemous  shapes that  loped  and  trotted  and  crawled through  it;  but  whatever  the  baffling source  of  his  images,  one  thing  was plain.  Pickman  was  in  every  sense — in  conception  and  in  execution — a thorough,  painstaking,  and  almost scientific  realist.

My  host  was  now  leading  the  way down  cellar  to  his  actual  studio, and  I  braced  myself  for  some  hellish effects  among  the  unfinished  canvases. As  we  reached  the  bottom  of  the damp  stairs  he  turned  his  flashlight to  a  comer  of  the  large  open  space at  hand,  revealing  the  circular  brick curb  of  what  was  evidently  a  great well  in  the  earthen  floor.  We  walked nearer,  and  I  saw  that  it  must  be  five feet  across,  with  walls  a  good  foot thick  and  some  six  inches  above  the ground  level — solid  work  of  the Seventeenth  Century,  or  I  was  much mistaken.  That,  Pickman  said,  was the  kind  of  thing  he  had  been  talking about — an  aperture  of  the  network  of tunnels  that  used  to  undermine  the hill.  I  noticed  idly  that  it  did  not seem  to  be  bricked  up,  and  that  a heavy  disk  of  wood  formed  the  ap¬ parent  cover.  Thinking  of  the  things


WEIRD  TALES

this  well  must  have  been  connected with  if  Pickman’s  wild  hints  had  hot been  mere  rhetoric,  I  shivered slightly;  then  turned  to  follow  him up  a  step  and  through  a  narrow  door into  a  room  of  fair  size,  provided with  a  wooden  floor  and  furnished  as a  studio.  An  acetylene  gas  outfit gave  the  light  necessary  for  work.

The  unfinished  pictures  on  easels or  propped  against  the  walls  were  as ghastly  as  the  finished  ones  upstairs, and  showed  the  painstaking  methods of  the  artist.  Scenes  were  blocked out  with  extreme  care,  and  penciled guide  lines  told  of  the  minute  ex¬ actitude  which  Pickman  used  in getting  the  right  perspective  and  pro¬ portions.  The  man  was  great — I  say it  even  now,  knowing  as  much  as  I do.  A  large  camera  on  a  table  ex¬ cited  my  notice,  and  Pickman  told me  that  he  used  it  in  taking  scenes for  backgrounds,  so  that  he  might paint  them  from  photographs  in  the studio  instead  of  carting  his  outfit around  the  town  for  this  or  that  view. He  thought  a  photograph  quite  as good  as  an  actual  scene  or  model  for sustained  work,  and  declared  he  em¬ ployed  them  regularly.

There  was  something  very  disturb¬ ing  about  the  nauseous  sketches  and half-finished  monstrosities  that  leered around  from  every  side  of  the  room, and  when  Pickman  suddenly  unveiled a  huge  canvas  on  the  side  away  from the  light  I  could  not  for  my  life  keep back  a  loud  scream — the  second  I had  emitted  that  night.  It  echoed and  echoed  through  the  dim  vault¬ ings  of  that  ancient  and  nitrous cellar,  and  I  had  to  choke  back  a flood  of  reaction  that  threatened  to burst  out  as  hysterical  laughter. Merciful  Creator!  Eliot,  but  I  don’t know  how  much  was  real  and  how much  was  feverish  fancy.  It  doesn’t seem  to  me  that  earth  can  hold  a dream  like  that !

It  was  a  colossal  and  nameless blasphemy  with  glaring  red  eyes,  and

it  held  in  bony  claws  a  thing  that  had been  a  man,  gnawing  at  the  head  as  a child  nibbles  at  a  stick  of  candy.  Its position  was  a  kind  of  crouch,  and as  one  looked  one  felt  that  at  any moment  it  might  drop  its  present prey  and  seek  a  juicier  morsel.  But, damn  it  all,  it  wasn’t  even  the  fiend¬ ish  subject  that  made  it  such  an  im¬ mortal  fountain-head  of  all  panic — not  that,  nor  the  dog  face  with  its pointed  ears,  bloodshot  eyes,  flat  nose, and  drooling  lips.  It  wasn’t  the scaly  claws  nor  the  mold-caked  body nor  the  half-hooved  feet — none  of these,  though  any  one  of  them  might well  have  driven  an  excitable  man  to madness.

It  was  the  technique,  Eliot — the cursed,  the  impious,  the  unnatural technique !  As  I  am  a  living  being,  I never  elsewhere  saw  the  actual  breath of  life  so  fused  into  a  canvas.  The monster  was  there — it  glared  and gnawed  and  gnawed  and  glared — and I  knew  that  only  a  suspension  of nature’s  laws  could  ever  let  a  man paint  a  thing  like  that  without  a model — without  some  glimpse  of  the nether  world  which  no  mortal  unsold to  the  Fiend  has  ever  had.

Pinned  with  a  thumb-tack  to  a vacant  part  of  the  canvas  was  a  piece of  paper  now  badly  curled  up — probably,  I  thought,  a  photograph from  which  Pickman  meant  to  paint a  background  as  hideous  as  the  night¬ mare  it  was  to  enhance.  I  reached out  to  uncurl  and  look  at  it,  when suddenly  I  saw  Pickman  start  as  if shot.  He  had  been  listening  with peculiar  intensity  ever  since  my shocked  scream  had  waked  unaccus¬ tomed  echoes  in  the  dark  cellar,  and now  he  seemed  struck  with  a  fright which,  though  not  comparable  to  my own,  had  in  it  more  of  the  physical than  of  the  spiritual.  He  drew  a  re¬ volver  and  motioned  me  to  silence, then  stepped  out  into  the  main  cellar and  closed  the  door  behind  him.

PICKMAN’S  MODEL


I  think  I  was  paralyzed  for  an  in¬ stant.  Imitating  Piekman’s  listen¬ ing,  I  fancied  I  heard  a  faint  scurry¬ ing  sound  somewhere,  and  a  series  of squeals  or  bleats  in  a  direction  I couldn’t  determine.  I  thought  of huge  rats  and  shuddered.  Then  there came  a  subdued  sort  of  clatter  which somehow  set  me  all  in  gooseflesh — a furtive,  groping  kind  of  clatter, though  I  can’t  attempt  to  convey what  I  mean  in  words.  It  was  like heavy  wood  falling  on  stone  or  brick — wood  on  brick — what  did  that make  me  think  of?

It  came  again,  and  louder..  There was  a  vibration  as  if  the  wood  had fallen  farther  than  it  had  fallen  be¬ fore.  After  that  followed  a  sharp grating  noise,  a  shouted  gibberish from  Pickman,  and  the  deafening  dis¬ charge  of  all  six  chambers  of  a  re¬ volver,  fired  spectacularly  as  a  liontamer  might  fire  in  the  air  for  effect. A  muffled  squeal  or  squawk,  and  a thud.  Then  more  wood  and  brick grating,  a  pause,  and  the  opening  of the  door — at  which  I’ll  confess  I started  violently.  Pickman  reap¬ peared  with  his  smoking  weapon, cursing  the  bloated  rats  that  infested the  ancient  well.

“The  deuce  knows  what  they  eat, Thurber,”  he  grinned,  “for  those archaic  tunnels  touched  graveyard and  witch-den  and  seacoast.  But whatever  it  is,  they  must  have  run short,  for  they  were  devilish  anxious to  get  out.  Your  yelling  stirred  them up,  I  fancy.  Better  be  cautious  in these  old  places — our  rodent  friends are  the  one  drawback,  though  I  some¬ times  think  they’re  a  positive  asset by  way  of  atmosphere  and  color.”

Well,  Eliot,  that  was  the  end  of the  night’s  adventure.  Pickman  had  promised  to  show  me  the place,  and  heaven  knows  he  had  done it.  He  led  me  out  of  that  tangle  of

alleys  in  another  direction,  it  seems, for  when  we  sighted  a  lamp-post  we were  in  a  half-familiar  street  with monotonous  rows  of  mingled  tene¬ ment  blocks  and  old  houses.  Charter Street,  it  turned  out  to  be,  but  I  was too  flustered  to  notice  just  where  we hit  it.  We  were  too  late  for  the  el¬ evated,  and  walked  back  downtown through  Hanover  Street.  I  remember that  walk.  We  switched  from  Tremont  up  Beacon,  and  Pickman  left me  at  the  corner  of  Joy,  where  I turned  off.  I  never  spoke  to  him again.

Why  did  I  drop  him?  Don’t  be impatient..  Wait  till  I  ring  for  coffee. We’ve  had  enough  of  the  other  stuff, but  I  for  one  need  something.  No — it  wasn’t  the  paintings  I  saw  in  that place;  though  I’ll  swear  they  were enough  to  get  him  ostracized  in  ninetenths  of  the  homes  and  clubs  of Boston,  and  I  guess  you  won’t wonder  now  why  I  have  to  steer  clear of  subways  and  cellars.  It.  was — something  I  found  in  my  coat  the next  morning.  You  know,  the  curledup  paper  tacked  to  that  frightful  can¬ vas  in  the  cellar;  the  thing  I  thought was  a  photograph  of  some  scene  he meant  to  use  as  a  background  for that  monster.  That  last  scare  had come  while  I  was  reaching  to  uncurl it,  and  it  seems  I  had  vacantly crumpled  it  into  my  pocket.  But here’s  the  coffee — take  it  black,  Eliot, if  you’re  wise.

Yes,  that  paper  was  the  reason  I dropped  Pickman;  Richard  Upton Pickman,  the  greatest  artist  I  have ever  known — and  the  foulest  being that  ever  leaped  the  bounds  of  life into  the  pits  of  myth  and  madness. Eliot — old  Reid  was  right.  He wasn’t  strictly  human.  Either  he was  bom  in  strange  shadow,  or  he’d found  a  way  to  unlock  the  forbidden gate.  It’s  all  the  same  now,  for  he’s


WEIRD  TALES

gone — back  into  the  fabulous  dark¬ ness  he  loved  to  haunt.  Here,  let’s have  the  chandelier  going.

Don’t  ask  me  to  explain  or  even conjecture  about  what  I  burned. Don’t  ask  me,  either,  what  lay  behind that  mole-like  scrambling  Pickman was  so  keen  to  pass  off  as  rats.  There are  secrets,  you  know,  which  might have  come  down  from  old  Salem times,  and  Cotton  Mather  tells  even stranger  things.  You  know  how

damned  lifelike  Pickman ’s  paintings were — how  we  all  wondered  where he  got  those  faces.

Well — that  paper  wasn’t  a  photo¬ graph  of  any  background,  after  all. What  it  showed  was  simply  the  mon¬ strous  being  he  was  painting  on  that awful  canvas.  It  was  the  model  he was  using — and  its  background  was merely  the  wall  of  the  cellar  studio  in minute  detail.  But  by  God,  Eliot,  it was  a  photograph  from  life.

OBLITERATION

By  SAMUEL  M.  SARGENT,  JR.

When  the  fires  are  burned  to  ashes,

And  the  hearth  is  gray  and  cold,

When  the  final  sound  of  thunder From  the  battlefield  has  rolled;

When  the  heart  at  length  is  silenced,

And  the  brain  at  last  is  stark,

Let  me  go  then  like  a  candle Quenched  and  stifled  in  the  dark

To  a  long  sleep,  and  a  deep  one,

With  no  soul’s  unsteady  light Burning  like  a  candle  guttering In  the  fearfulness  of  night.

For  a  candle  flame  in  midnight Is  a  mockery  of  the  noon,

And  its  shadows  stand  out  ghoulish In  the  starlight  or  the  moon.

But  the  slumberer  is  restful Lost  in  darknesses  profound,

All  unconscious  of  black  shadows That  may  hover  close  around.

Oh,  a  long  sleep,  and  a  deep  one !

With  no  soul’s,  uncertain  glow To  arouse  the  spectral  vapors

Of  the  Border  ....  when  I  go.

AND  so,  Dr.  de  Grandin,”  our visitor  concluded,  “this  is really  a  case  for  your  re¬ markable  powers.”

Jules  de  Grandin  selected  a  fresh cigarette  from  his  engine-turned  sil¬ ver  case,  tapped  its  end  thoughtfully against  his  well-manicured  thumb¬ nail  and  regarded  the  caller  with  one of  his  disconcertingly  unwinking stares.  “Am  I  to  understand  that  all other  attempts  to  effect  a  cure  have failed,  Monsieur V*  he  asked  at length.

“Utterly.  We’ve  tried  everything in  reason,  and  out  of  it,”  Captain Loudon  replied.  “We’ve  had  some of  the  best  neurologists  in  consulta¬

tion,  we’ve  employed  faith-healers, spiritualistic  mediums,  even  had  her given  ‘absent  treatment’,  all  to  no avail.  All  the  physicians,  all  the  cultists  and  quacks  have  failed  us ; now - ”

“Now,  I  do  not  think  I  care  to  be numbered  among  those  quacks,  Mon¬ sieur,”  the  Frenchman  returned coldly,  expelling  a  double  column  of smoke  from  his  nostrils.  “Had  you called  me  into  consultation  with  an accredited  physician - ”

“But  that’s  just  it,”  the  captain interrupted.  “Every  physician  we’ve had  has  been  confident  he  could  work a  cure,  but  they’ve  all  failed.  Julia is  a  lovely  girl — I  don’t  say  it  because


WEIRD  TALES

she’s  my  daughter,  I  state  it  as  a fact — and  was  to  have  been  married this  fall,  and  now  this — this  disorder has  taken  complete  possession  of  her and  it’s  wrecking  her  life.  Robert — Lieutenant  Proudfit,  her  fiance — and I  are  almost  beside  ourselves,  and  as for  my  daughter,  I  fear  her  mind  will give  way  and  she’ll  destroy  herself unless  somebody  can  do  something !”

“Ah?”  the  little  Frenchman arched  the  narrow  black  brows  which were  such  a  vivid  contrast  to  his blond  hair  and  mustache.  “Why  did not  you  say  so  before,  Monsieur  le Capitainef  It  is  not  merely  the  cur¬ ing  of  one  nervous  young  lady  that you  would  have  me  undertake,  but the  fruition  of  a  romance  I  should bring  about?  Bien,  good,  very  well; I  accept.  If  you  will  also  retain  my good  friend  Dr.  Trowbridge,  so  that there  shall  be  a  locally  licensed  and respected  physician  in  the  case,  my powers  which  you  have  been  kind enough  to  call  remarkable  are  entire¬ ly  at  your  disposal.”

“Splendid!”  Captain  Loudon agreed,  rising.  “Then  it’s  all  ar¬ ranged.  I  can  expect  you  to - ”

“One  moment,  if  you  please,”  de Grandin  interrupted,  raising  his slender,  womanishly  small  hand  for silence.  “Suppose  we  make  a  precis of  the  case  before  we  go  further.” He  drew  a  pad  of  note-paper  and  a pencil  toward  him  as  he  continued :

“Your  daughter,  Mademoiselle Julie,  how  old  is  she?”

“Twenty-nine.”

“A  most  charming  age,”  the  little Frenchman  commented,  scribbling  a note.  “And  she  is  your  only  child?”

“Yes.”

“Now,  these  manifestations  of  the outre,  these  so  unusual  happenings, they  began  to  take  place  about  six months  ago?”

“Just  about;  I  can’t  place  the  time exactly.  ’  ’

“No  matter.  They  have  assumed various  mystifying  forms?  She  has

refused  food,  she  has  had  visions,  she shouts,  she  sings  uncontrollably,  she speaks  in  a  voice  which  is  strange  to her — at  times  she  goes  into  a  death¬ like  trance  and  from  her  throat  issue strange  voices,  voices  of  men,  or  other women,  even  of  little  children?”

“Yes.”

“And  other  apparently  inexpli¬ cable  things  occur.  Chairs,  books, tables,  even  such  heavy  pieces  of furniture  as  a  piano,  move  from  their accustomed  places  when  she  is  near, and  bits  of  jewelry  and  other  small objects  are  hurled  through  the  air?”

“Yes,  and  worse  than  that,  I’ve seen  pins  and  needles  fly  from  her work-basket  and  bury  themselves  in her  cheeks  and  arms,”  the  captain  in¬ terrupted,  “and  lately  she’s  been persecuted  by  scars — scars  from  some invisible  source.  Great  weals,  like  the claw-marks  from  some  beast,  have appeared  on  her  arms  and  face, right  while  I  looked  qn,  and  I’ve  been wakened  at  night  by  her  screams,  and when  I  rush  into  her  room  I  find  the marks  of  long,  thin  fingers  on  her throat.  It’s  maddening,  sir;  terrify¬ ing.  I’d  say  it  was  a  case  of  demoni¬ acal  possession,  if  I  didn’t  disbelieve all  that  sort  of  supernaturalism.”

“U’m,”  de  Grandin  looked  up from  the  pad  on  which  he  had  been industriously  scribbling.  “There  is nothing  in  the  world,  or  out  of  it, which  is  supernatural,  my  friend ;  die wisest  man  today  can  not  say  where the  powers  and  possibilities  of  nature begin  or  end.  We  say,  ‘Thus  and  so is  beyond  the  bounds  of  our  ex¬ perience,  ’  but  does  that  therefore  put it  beyond  the  bounds  of  nature?  I think  not.  Myself,  I  have  seen  such things  as  no  man  can  hear  me  relate without  calling  me  a  liar,  and  my good,  unimaginative  friend  Trow¬ bridge  has  witnessed  such  wonders  as no  writer  of  fiction  would  dare  set down  on  paper,  yet  I  do  declare  we have  never  yet  seen  that  which  I would  call  supernatural.

THE  POLTERGEIST


“But  come,  let  us  go,  let  us  hasten to  your  house,  Monsieur ;  I  would  in¬ terview  Mademoiselle  Julie  and  see for  myself  some  of  these  so  remark¬ able  afflictions  of  hers.

“Remember,”  he  turned  his  fixed, unwinking  stare  on  our  patron  as  we paused  for  our  outdoor  things  in  the hall,  “remember,  if  you  please,  Mon¬ sieur,  I  am  not  like  those  quacks,  or even  those  other  physicians  who  have failed  you.  I  do  not  say  I  can  work a  cure.  I  can  but  promise  to  try. Good,  we  shall  see  what  we  shall  see. Let  us  go.  ’  ’

Robert  beauregard  loudon  was  a retired  navy  captain,  a  widower with  more  than  sufficient  means  to gratify  his  rather  epicurean  tastes, and  possessed  one  of  the  finest  houses in  the  fashionable  new  west  side suburb.  The  furnishings  spoke  of something  more  than  wealth  as  we surveyed  them ;  they  proclaimed  that vague,  but  nevertheless  tangible thing  known  as  “background”  which is  only  to  be  had  from  generations  of ancestors  to  the  manor  born.  Orig¬ inal  pieces  of  mahogany  by  Sheraton and  Chippendale  and  the  Brothers Adam,  family  portraits  from  the brush  of  Benjamin  West,  silver  in the  best  tradition  of  the  early Eighteenth  Century  smiths,  even  the dignifiedly  aloof,  elderly  colored  but¬ ler,  announced  that  our  patient’s father  was  in  every  way  an  officer and  a  gentleman  in  the  best  sense  of the  term.

“If  you  will  give  Hezekiah  your things,”  Captain  Loudon  indicated the  solemn  old  negro  with  a  nod,  “  I  ’ll go  up  and  tell  my  daughter  you’re here.  I  know  she  will  be  glad

A  clanking,  banging  noise,  like  a tin  can  bumping  over  the  cobbles  at the  tail  of  some  luckless  terrier,  inter¬ rupted  his  remarks,  and  we  turned  in amazement  toward  the  wide,  curving staircase  at  the  farther  end  of  the

long  central  hall.  The  noise  grew louder,  almost  deafening,  then  ceased as  abruptly  as  it  began,  and  a  young girl  rounded  the  curve  of  the  stair¬ case,  coming  slowly  toward  us.

She  was  more  than  middle  height, slender  and  supple  as  a  willow  withe, and  carried  herself  with  the  bearing of  a  young  princess.  A  lovely  though almost  unfashionably  long  gown  of white  satin  and  chiffon  draped  its  un¬ even  hem  almost  to  her  ankles,  and about  her  slender  bare  shoulders  and over  her  arms  hung  a  richly  embroid¬ ered  shawl  of  Chinese  silk.  One  hand rested  lightly  on  the  mahogany  rail  of the  balustrade,  as  though  partly  for support,  partly  for  guidance,  as  she slowly  descended  the  red-carpeted steps.  This  much  we  saw  at  first glance,  but  our  second  look  remained riveted  on  her  sweet,  pale  face.

Almost  unbeautifully  long  it  was, pale  with  the  rich,  creamy  pallor which  is  some  women’s  birthright  and not  the  result  of  poor  health,  and  her vivid,  scarlet  lips  showed  in  contrast to  her  ivory  cheeks  like  a  rose  fallen in  the  snow.  Brows  as  delicate  as those  of  a  French  doll,  narrow,  curv¬ ing  brows  which  needed  no  plucking to  accentuate  their  patrician  lines, dipped  sharply  together  above  the bridge  of  her  small  nose,  and  lashes which  even  at  the  distance  we  stood from  her  showed  their  vivid  blackness veiled  her  eyes.  At  first  I  thought her  gaze  was  on  the  steps  before  her, and  that  she  made  each  forward movement  with  slow  care  lest  she  fall from  weakness  or  nervous  exhaustion, but  a  second’s  scrutiny  of  her  face told  me  the  truth.  The  girl  walked with  lowered  lids.  Whether  in  nat¬ ural  sleep  or  in  some  supernatural trance,  she  was  descending  the  stairs with  tightly  closed  eyes.

“La  pavvre  petite”  de  Grandin exclaimed  under  his  breath,  his  gaze fixed  on  her.  “Grand  Dicu,  Friend Trowbridge,  but  she  is  beautiful! Why  did  I  not  come  here  before?”


WEIRD  TALES

Out  of  the  empty  air,  apparently some  six  feet  above  the  girl’s  proudly poised  head,  a  burst  of  mocking, maniacal  laughter  answered  him,  and from  the  thick-piled  carpet  suddenly rose  again  the  clang-bang  racket  we had  heard  before  she  came  into  view.

“Helas!”  De  Grandin  turned  a pitying  glance  on  the  girl’s  father, then:  “Nom  de  Dieu!”  he  cried, ducking  his  head  suddenly  and  look¬ ing  over  his  shoulder  with  rounded eyes.  Against  the  wall  of  the  apart¬ ment,  some  twenty  feet  distant,  there hung  a  stand  of  arms,  one  or  two swords,  a  spear  and  several  bolos, trophies  of  the  captain’s  service  in the  Philippines.  As  though  seized  by an  invisible  hand,  one  of  the  bolos  had detached  itself  from  the  wall,  hurtled whistling  through  the  air  and  em¬ bedded  itself  nearly  an  inch  deep  in the  white  wainscoting  behind  the little  Frenchman,  missing  his  cheek by  the  barest  fraction  of  a  centimeter as  it  flew  whirring  past.

The  clanking  tumult  beneath  the girl’s  feet  subsided  as  quickly  as  it commenced,  she  took  an  uncertain step  forward  and  opened  her  eyes. They  were  unusually  long,  purple rather  than  blue  in  color,  and  held such  an  expression  of  changeless melancholy  as  I  had  never  seen  in  one so  young.  It  was  the  look  of  one foredoomed  to  inescapable  death  by an  incurable  disease.

“Why” — she  began  with  the  be¬ wildered  look  of  one  suddenly  roused from  sleep — “why — Father!  What am  I  doing  here  ?  I  was  in  my  room, lying  down,  when  I  thought  I  heard Robert ’s  voice.  I  tried  to  get  up,  but ‘It’  held  me  down,  and  I  think  I  fell asleep.  I - ”

“Daughter,”  Captain  Loudon spoke  gently,  the  sobs  very  near  the surface,  for  all  his  iron  self-control, “these  gentlemen  are  Dr.  de  Grandin and  Dr.  Trowbridge.  They’ve  come

“Oh,”  the  girl  made  an  impatient

gesture  which  yet  seemed  somewhat languid,  as  though  even  remonstrance were  useless,  “more  doctors!  Why did  you  bring  them,  Father?  You know  they’ll  be  just  like  all  the  rest. Nothing  can  help  me — nothing  seems any  good!”

'  ‘  Pardonnez-moi,  M  ademoiselle,  ’  ' de  Grandin  bent  forward  in  a  formal, European  bow,  heels  together,  elbows stiffly  at  sides,  “but  I  think  you  will find  us  most  different  from  the  rest. To  begin,  we  come  to  cure  you  and give  you  back  to  the  man  you  love ; and  in  the  second  place,  I  have  a  per¬ sonal  interest  in  this  case.”

“A  personal  interest?”  she  in¬ quired,  acknowledging  his  bow  with  a negligent  nod.

“Morileu,  but  I  have.  Did  not  the — the  thing  which  troubles  you,  hurl a  bolo-knife  at  me?  Sucre  nom,  no fantome,  no  lutin  shall  throw  knives at  Jules  de  Grandin,  then  boast  of the  exploit  to  his  ghostly  fellows. Nom  d’un  petit  Chinois,  I  think  we shall  show  them  something  before  we are  finished!

‘  ‘  VT ow,  Mademoiselle,  we  must  ask your  pardon  for  these  ques¬ tions,  ’  ’  he  began  wheli  he  had  reached the  drawing  room.  “To  you  it  is  an old  and  much-told  tale,  but  we  are ignorant  of  your  case,  save  for  such information  as  your  father  has  im¬ parted.  Tell  us,  if  you  please,  when did  these  so  strange  manifestations begin?”

The  girl  regarded  him  silently  a moment,  her  brooding,  plum-colored eyes  staring  almost  resentfully  into his  agate-blue  ones.

“It  was  about  six  months  ago,” she  began  in  a  lifeless  monotone,  like a  child  reciting  a  rote-learned  but distasteful  lesson.  “I  had  come  home from  a  dance  in  New  York  with  Lieu¬ tenant  Proudfit,  and  it  must  have been  about  3  o’clock  in  the  morning, for  we  had  not  left  New  York  until midnight,  and  our  train  was  delayed

THE  POLTERGEIST


by  a  heavy  sleet-storm.  Lieutenant Proudfit  was  stopping  overnight  with us,  for  we  are — we  were — engaged, and  I  had  said  good-night  to  him  and gone  to  my  room  when  it  seemed  I heard  something  fluttering  and  tap¬ ping  at  my  window,  like  a  bird  at¬ tracted  by  the  light,  or — I  don’t  know what  made  me  think  so,  but  I  got  the impression,  somehow — a  bat  beating its  wings  against  the  panes.

“I  remember  being  startled  by  the noise,  at  first,  then  I  was  overcome with  pity  for  the  poor  thing,  for  it was  bitter  cold  outside  and  the  sleet was  driving  down  like  whiplashes with  the  force  of  the  east  wind.  I went  over  to  the  window  and  opened it  to  see  what  was  outside.  I” — she hesitated  a  moment,  then  went  for¬ ward  with  her  narrative — “I  was partly  undressed  by  this  time,  and the  cold  wind  blowing  through  the open  window  cut  like  a  knife,  but  I looked  out  into  the  storm  to  see  if  I could  find  the  bird,  or  whatever  it was.  ’  ’

“Ah?”  de  Grandin’s  little  eyes were  sparkling  with  suppressed  ex¬ citement,  but  there  was  neither humor  nor  warmth  in  their  flash. Rather,  they  were  like  two  tiny  pools of  clear,  adamant-hard  ice  reflecting a  cloudless  winter  sky  and  bright, cold  winter  sunshine.  ‘  ‘  Proced,  if  you please,”  he  commanded,  his  voice utterly  toneless.  “You  did  open  your window  to  the  tapping  which  was outside..  And  what  did  you  next?”

“I  looked  out  and  said,  ‘Come  in, you  poor  creature !  ’  ”  the  girl  replied. ‘  ‘  Even  though  I  thought  it  was  a  bat at  the  pane,  my  reason  told  me  it couldn’t  be,  for  bats  aren’t  about  in the  dead  of  winter,  and  if  it  had  been one,  much  as  I  hate  the  things,  I couldn’t  have  slept  with  the  thought of  its  being  outside  in  my  mind.”

“Ah?”  de  Grandin  repeated,  his voice  raised  slightly  in  interrogation. “And  so  you  did  invite  what  was  out¬ side  to  come  in?”  Level  as  his  tone

was,  there  was  a  certain  pointedness in  the  way  he  spoke  the  words,  almost as  though  they  were  uttered  in  faint¬ ly  shocked  protest.

“Of  course,”  she  returned.  “I know  it  was  silly  for  me  to  speak  to  a bird  that  way,  as  if  it  could  under¬ stand,  but,  you  know,  we  often  ad¬ dress  animals  in  that  way.  At  any rate,  I  might  have  saved  myself  the chilling  I  got,  for  there  was  nothing there.  I  waited  several  minutes  till the  cold  wind  almost  set  my  teeth  to chattering,  but  nothing  was  visible outside,  and  there  were  no  further flutterings  at  the  window.”

“Probably  not,”  the  Frenchman commented  dryly.  “What  then, please  ? ’ ’

“Why,  nothing — right  away.  It seemed  as  though  the  room  had  be¬ come  permanently  chilled,  though,  for even  after  I’d  closed  the  window  the air  was  icy  cold,  and  I  had  to  wrap my  dressing  gown  about  me  while  I

made  ready  for  bed.  Then - ”

She  stopped  with  an  involuntary shudder.

“Yes,  and  then?”  he  prompted,  re¬ garding  her  narrowly  while  his  lean white  fingers  tapped  a  devil’s  tattoo on  his  chair  arm.

“Then  the  first  strange  thing  hap¬ pened.  As  I  was  slipping  my  gown off,  I  distinctly  felt  a  hand  grasp  me about  the  upper  arm — a  long,  thin, deathly  cold  hand!”

She  looked  up  defiantly,  as  though expecting  some  skeptical  protest,  but : “Yes,”  he  nodded  shortly.  “And after  that?”

The  girl  regarded  him  with  a  sort of  wonder.  “You  believe  me — be¬ lieve  I  actually  felt  something  grasp me?”  she  asked  incredulously.

“Have  you  not  said  so,  Mademoi¬ selle?”  he  returned  a  thought  irri¬ tably.  “Proceed,  please.”

“But  every  other  doctor  I’ve talked  to  has  tried  to  tell  me  I  didn ’t — couldn’t  have  actually  felt  such  a thing,”  she  persisted.


WEIRD  TALES

“Mademoiselle!”  the  little  man’s annoyance  cut  through  the  habitual courtesy  with  which  he  treated  mem¬ bers  of  the  gentler  sex  as  a  flame  cuts through  wax.  “We  do  waste  time. We  are  discussing  you  and  your  case, not  the  other  physicians  or  their methods.  They  have  failed.  We shall  give  them  none  of  our  valuable time.  Bien.  You  were  saying - ”

“That  I  felt  a  long,  cold  hand grasp  me  about  the  arm,  and  a  mo¬ ment  later,  before  1  had  a  chance  to cry  out  or  even  shrink  away,  some¬ thing  began  scratching  my  skin.  It was  like  a  long,  blunt  fingernail — a human  nail,  not  the  claw  of  an  ani¬ mal,  you  understand.  But  it  had  con¬ siderable  force  behind  it,  and  I  could see  the  skin  turning  white  in  its  wake. Dr.  de  Grandin” — she  leaned  for¬ ward,  staring  with  wide,  frightened eyes  into  his  face — “the  welts  formed letters!”

“U’m?”’  he  nodded  unexcitedly. “You  do  recall  what  they  spelled?’’

“They  didn’t  spell  anything.  It was  like  the  ramblings  of  a  Ouija board  when  the  little  table  seems wandering  about  from  letter  to  letter without  spelling  any  actual  words.  I made  out  a  crude,  printed  D,  then  a smaller  r,  then  an  a,  and  finally  a  c and  u, — D-r-a-c-u.  That  was  all.  You see,  it  wasn’t  a  word  at  all.”

De  Grandin  was  sitting  forward  on the  extreme  edge  of  his  chair,  his hands  grasping  its  arms  as  though  he were  about  to  leap  from  his  seat. “Dracu,”  he  repeated  softly  to  him¬ self,  then,  still  lower,  “ Dieu  de  Dieu! It  is  possible;  but  why?”

“Why,  what  is  it?”  the  girl  de¬ manded,  his  tense  attitude  reflecting itself  in  her  widened  eyes  and  appre¬ hensive  expression.

He  shook  himself  like  a  spaniel emerging  from  the  water.  “It  is nothing,  Mademoiselle,”  he  assured her  with  a  resumption  of  his  profes¬ sionally  impersonal  manner.  “I  did think  I  recognized  the  word,  but  I

fear  I  must  have  been  mistaken.  You are  sure  there  were  no  other  letters?”

“Positive.  That  was  all ;  just  those five,  no  more.”

“Quite  yes.  And  after  that?”

“After  that  all  sorts  of  terrible things  began  happening  to  me. Father  has  told  you  how  chairs  and tables  rise  up  when  I  come  near  them, and  how  little  objects  fly  through  the air?”

He  nodded,  smiling.  “But  of course,  ’  ’  he  returned, . 1  ‘  and  I,  myself, did  see  one  little  thing  fly  through the  air.  Parbleu,  it  did  fly  unpleas¬ antly  close  to  my  head!  And  these so  strange  sleeps  you  have?”

“They  come  on  me  almost  any time,  mostly  when  I ’m  least  expecting them.  One  time  I  was  seized  with one  while  on  the  train  and” — her face  flushed  bright  coral  at  the  recol¬ lection — “and  the  conductor  thought I  was  drunk!”

“ Bete !”  de  Grandin  murmured. “And  you  have  not  heard  the  voices — the  noises  which  sometimes  accom¬ pany  you,  Mademoiselle  f”

“No,  I’ve  been  told  of  them ;  but  I know  nothing  of  what  occurs  while I’m  in  one  of  these  trances.  I  don’t even  dream ;  at  least,  I  have  no dreams  I  can  remember  when  I  wake up.  I  only  know  that  I  am  apt  to fall  asleep  at  any  time,  and  fre¬ quently  wander  about  while  uncon¬ scious,  waking  up  in  some  totally  dif¬ ferent  place.  Once  I  walked  half-way to  the  city  while  asleep,  and  narrowly escaped  being  run  down  by  a  taxicab when  I  came  to  in  the  middle  of  the street.”

“But  this  is  villainous!”  he  burst out.  “This  is  infamous;  this  must not  be  allowed.  Mordieu,  I  shall  not permit  it!”

Something  of  the  girl ’s  weary  man¬ ner  returned  as  she  asked,  “How  are you  going  to  stop  it?  The  others  all said - ”

“Chut!  The  others!  We  shall  not’ discuss  them,  if  you  please,  MademoiTHE  POLTERGEIST


seUe.  Me,  I  am  not  as  the  others;  I am  Jules  de  Grandin!

“First,  my  friend,”  he  turned  to me,  “I  would  that  you  obtain  a  com¬ petent  nurse,  one  whose  discretion  is matched  only  by  her  ability.  You know  one  such?  Tres  lien.  Hasten, rush,  fly  to  procure  her  at  once.  Bid her  come  to  us  with  all  celerity  and be  prepared  to  serve  until  relieved.

“Next” — he  seized  a  pad  and scribbled  a  prescription — “I  would that  Monsieur  le  Capitaine  has  this filled  and  administers  one  dose  dis¬ solved  in  hot  water  at  once.  It  is somnol,  a  harmless  mixture  of  drugs, pleasant  to  the  taste  and  of  un¬ doubted  efficacy  in  this  case.  It  will act  better  than  chloral.”

“But  I  don’t  want  to  take chloral,”  the  girl  protested.  “I  have enough  trouble  with  sleep  as  it  is;  I want  something  to  ward  off  sleep,  not to  induce  it.”

“Mademoiselle,”  he  replied  with something  like  a  twinkle  in  his  keen little  eyes,  “have  you  never  heard  of combating  the  devil  with  flames? Take  the  medicine  as  directed.  Dr. Trowbridge  and  I  shall  return  soon, and  we  shall  not  rest  until  we  have produced  a  cure,  never  doubt  it.”

“npHis  is  the  strangest  case  I  ever saw,”  I  confided  as  we  drove toward  town.  “The  girl’s  symptoms all  point  to  hysteria  of  the  most violent  sort,  but  I’m  hanged  if  I  can account  for  those  diabolical  noises which  accompanied  her  down  the stairs,  or  that  laugh  we  heard  when she  reached  the  hall,  or - ”

“Or  the  knife  which  nearly  split the  head  of  Jules  de  Grandin?”  he supplied.  “No,  my  friend,  I  fear medical  science  can  not  account  for those  things.  Me,  I  see  part  of  it,  but not  all,  parlleu,  not  near  enough.  Do you  recall  the  ancient  medical  theory concerning  icterus?”

“Jaundice?”

“But  of  course.”

“You  mean  it  used  to  be  considered a  disease,  rather  than  a  symptom?”

“Precisely.  One  hundred,  two hundred  years  ago  the  craft  knew  the yellow  color  of  the  patient’s  skin  was due  to  diffused  bile  in  the  system,  but what  caused  the  diffusion?  Ah,  that was  a  question  left  long  unanswered. So  it  is  with  this  poor  girl ’s  case.  Me, I  recognize  the  symptoms,  and  some of  their  cause  is  plain  to  me,  but — ten  thousand  little  red  devils! — why? Why  should  she  be  the  object  of  this persecution?  One  does  not  open  a window  in  the  wintertime  to  bid  a non-existent  bat  or  bird  enter  one’s house,  only  to  fall  victim  to  such tricks  as  have  plagued  Mademoiselle Loudon  since  that  winter’s  night. No,  morbleu,  there  was  a  reason  for it,  the  thing  which  tapped  at  her pane,  being  outside  that  night, Friend  Trowbridge,  and  the  writing on  her  arm,  that  too,  came  not  with¬ out  cause!”

I  listened  in  amazement  to  his tirade,  but  one  of  his  statements struck  a  responsive  chord  in  my memory.  “You  spoke  of  ‘writing’ on  her  arm,  de  Grandin,”  I  inter¬ posed.  “When  she  described  it  I thought  you  seemed  to  recognize  some connection  between  the  incomplete word  and  her  symptoms.  Is  ‘dakboo’ a  complete  word,  or  the  beginning  of one?”

“Dracu,”  he  corrected  shortly. “Yes,  my  friend,  it  is  a  word.  It  is Rumanian  for  devil,  or,  more  prop¬ erly,  demon.  You  begin  to  see  the connection  ?  ’  ’

“No,  I’m  hanged  if  I  do,”  I  re¬ torted.

“So  am  I,”  he  replied  laconically, and  lapsed  into  moody  silence  from which  my  best  attempts  at  conversa¬ tion  failed  to  rouse  him.

Lulled  into  counterfeit  rest  by  the drug  de  Grandin  prescribed, Julia  Loudon  passed  the  night  com¬ fortably  enough,  and  seemed  brighter


WEIRD  TALES

and  happier  when  we  called  to  inter¬ view  her  next  morning.

“ Mademoiselle de  Grandin  an¬ nounced,  after  the  usual  medical mummery  of  taking  temperature  and pulse  had  been  completed,  “the  day is  fine.  I  prescribe  that  you  go  for  a drive  this  morning;  indeed,  I strongly  urge  that  you  accompany Dr.  Trowbridge  and  me  forthwith. He  has  a  number  of  calls  to  make, and  I  would  observe  what  effect  the fresh  air  has  upon  you.  I  venture  to say  you  have  had  little  enough  of  it lately.”

“I  haven't,”  the  girl  confessed. “You  see,  since  that  time  when  I wandered  off  in  my  sleep,  I’ve  been afraid  to  go  anywhere  by  myself,  and I 've  even  shrunk  from  going  out  with Father  or  Rob — Lieutenant  Proudfit. I’ve  been  afraid  of  embarrassing them  by  one  of  my  seizures.  But  it will  be  all  right  for  me  to  go  if  you and  Dr.  Trowbridge  are  along,  I know,  ’  ’  she  smiled  wistfully  at  him.

“Of  a  surety,”  he  agreed,  twisting the  ends  of  his  trim  little  blond  mus¬ tache.  “Have  no  fear,  dear  lady;  I shall  see  no  harm  comes  to  you. Make  haste,  we  would  be  off.”

Miss  Loudon  turned  to  mount  the stairs,  a  suggestion  of  freedom  and returning  health  in  the  spring  of  her walk,  and  de  Grandin  turned  a  puz¬ zled  countenance  to  Captain  Loudon and  me.  “Your  daughter’s  case  is far  simpler  than  I  had  supposed, Monsieur  le  Capitaine,”  he  an¬ nounced.  “So  much  I  have  been accustomed  to  encountering  what unthinking  persons  call  the  super¬ natural  that  I  fear  I  have  become what  you  Americans  call  ‘hipped’  on the  subject.  Now,  when  first  Ma¬ demoiselle  detailed  her  experiences  to me,  I  was  led  to  certain  conclusions which,  happily,  have  not  seemed justified  by  what  we  have  since observed.  Medicine  is  helpful  in most  cases  of  the  kind,  but  I  had feared - ”

A  perfect  pandemonium  of  ca¬ cophonous  dissonances,  like  the  bray¬ ing  of  half  a  dozen  jazz  bands  sud¬ denly  gone  crazy,  interrupted  his speech.  Clattering  tin  cans,  jangling cowbells,  the  wailings  of  tortured fiddles  and  discordant  shrieks  of wood-wind  instruments  all  seemed mingled  with  shouts  of  wild,  demo¬ niac  laughter  as  a  bizarre  figure emerged  in  view  at  the  turn  of  the stairs  and  half  leaped,  half  fell  to the  hall.

For  an  instant  I  failed  to  recognize patrician  Julia  Loudon  in  the  gro¬ tesque  thing  before  us.  Her  luxuriant black  hair  had  escaped  from  the Grecian  coronel  in  which  she  habit¬ ually  wore  it  and  hung  fantastically about  her  breast  and  shoulders,  half veiling,  half  disclosing  a  face  from which  every  vestige  of  serenity  had disappeared  and  on  which  a  leer — no  other  word  expresses  it — of mingled  craft  and  cunning  and idiotic  stupidity  sat  like  a  toad  en¬ throned  upon  a  fungus.  She  was barearmed  and  barelegged;  indeed, the  only  garment  covering  her  supple, white  body  was  a  Spanish  shawl wound  tightly  about  bust  and  torso, its  fringed  ends  dragging  over  the floor  behind  her  flying  feet  as  she capered  like  a  female  satyr  across  the hall  drugget  to  the  bedlam  accom¬ paniment  of  infernal  noises  whieh seemed  to  hover  over  her  like  a  swarm of  poisonous  flies  above  a  wounded animal  struggling  through  the  mire of  a  swamp.

“ Ai,  ai,  ai-ee!”  she  cried  in  a raucous  voice,  bending  this  way  and that  in  time  to  the  devilish  racket. “Behold  my  work,  foolish  man,  be¬ hold  my  mastery !  Fool  that  you  are, to  try  to  take  mine  from  me !  Today I  shall  make  this  woman  a  scandal and  disgrace,  and  tonight  I  shall  re¬ quire  her  life.  Ai,  ai,  ai-ee!”

For  a  fleeting  instant  de  Grandin turned  an  appalled  face  to  me,  and  I met  his  flying  glance  with  one  no  less

THE  POLTERGEIST


surprized,  for  the  voice  issuing  from the  girl’s  slender  throat  was  not  her own.  No  tone  or  inflection  of  it  was reminiscent  of  Julia  Loudon.  Every shrilling  syllable  spoke  of  a  different individual,  a  personality  instinct with  evil  vivacity  as  hers  seemed  in¬ stinct  with  sweetness  and  melancholy.

“Cordieu!”  de  Grandin  exclaimed between  set  teeth,  springing  toward the  girl,  then  halting  in  horrified amazement  as  though  congealed  to ice  in  his  tracks.  From  every  side  of the  room,  like  flickering  beams  of light,  tiny  bits  of  metal  flew  toward the  girl’s  swaying  body,  and  in  an instant  her  arms,  legs,  throat,  even her  cheeks,  were  encrusted  with  glit¬ tering  pins  and  needles  buried  pointdeep  in  her  creamy  skin  like  the torture-implements  driven  into  the bodies  of  the  pain-defying  fakirs  of India.  Almost  it  seemed  as  though the  girl  had  suddenly  become  a powerful  electro-magnet  to  which every  particle  of  movable  metal  in the  apartment  had  leaped.

For  an  instant  she  stood  swaying there,  the  cruel  points  embedded  in her  flesh,  yet  seemingly  causing  no pain,  then  a  wild,  heart-rending shriek  broke  from  her  lips,  and  her eyes  opened  wide  in  sudden  terror and  consternation.  Instantly  it  was apparent  she  had  regained  conscious¬ ness,  realized  her  position,  her  almost complete  nudity  and  the  biting, stinging  points  of  the  countless needles  all  at  once.

“Quick,  Trowbridge,  my  friend!’’ de  Grandin  urged,  leaping  forward. “Take  her,  my  old  one.  Do  not  per¬ mit  her  to  fall — those  pins,  they  will surely  impale  her  if  she  drops.  ’  ’

Even  as  I  seized  the  fainting  girl in  my  arms,  the  Frenchman  was furiously  gamering  the  pins  from her  flesh,  cursing  volubly  in  mingled French  and  English  as  he  worked.

“Parbleu,”  he  swore,  “it  is  the devil’s  work,  of  a  surety.  By  damn, I  shall  have  words  to  say  to  this  ac¬

cursed  dracu  who  sticks  pins  in young  ladies  and  throws  knives  at Jules  de  Grandin !  ’  ’

Following  him,  I  bore  the  swooning girl  up  the  stairs,  placed  her  on  her bed  and  turned  furiously  in  search of  the  nurse.  What  could  the  woman have  been  thinking  of  to  let  her patient  leave  her  room  in  such  a  cos¬ tume?  “Miss  Stanton,”  I  called angrily.  “Where  are  you?”

A  muffled  sound,  half-way  between a  scream  and  an  articulate  cry,  and  a faint,  ineffectual  tap-tap  on  the  door of  the  closet  answered  me.  Snatch¬ ing  the  door  of  the  clothes-press  open, I  found  her  lying  on  the  floor,  half smothered  by  fallen  dresses,  her mouth  gagged  by  a  Turkish  towel, wrists  tied  behind  her  and  ankles lashed  together  with  knotted  silk stockings.

“A-a-ah,  oh!”  she  gasped  as  I  re¬ lieved  her  of  her  fetters  and  helped her,  half  fainting,  to  her  feet.  “It took  me,  Dr.  Trowbridge.  I  was helpless  as  a  baby  in  its  hands.”

De  Grandin  looked  up  from  his ministrations  to  Julia  Loudon. “What  was  the  ‘It’  which  took  you, Mademoiselle?”  he  inquired,  folding back  the  shawl  from  the  girl ’s  injured limbs  and  deftly  shoving  her  beneath the  bedclothes.  “Was  it  Mademoi¬ selle  Loudon?”

“No!”  the  nurse  gasped,  her hands  still  trembling  with  fright  and nervousness.  ‘  ‘  Oh,  no,  not  Miss Loudon,  sir.  It  was — I  don’t  know what.  Miss  Loudon  came  upstairs  a few  moments  ago  and  said  you  and Dr.  Trowbridge  were  taking  her motoring,  and  she  must  change  her clothes.  She  began  removing  her house  dress,  but  kept  taking  off her  garments  until  she  was — she

was - ”  she  hesitated  a  moment,

catching  her  breath  in  long,  laboring gasps.

“ Mordieu ,  yes!”  de  Grandin  cut  in testily.  “We  do  waste  time,  Made¬ moiselle.  She  did  remove  her  clothWEIRD  TALES

ing  until  she  was  what?  Completely nude?”

“Yes,”  the  nurse  replied  with  a shudder.  “I  was  about  to  ask  her  if she  needed  to  change  all  her  clothes, when  she  turned  and  looked  at  me, and  her  face  was  like  the  face  of  a devil,  sir.  Then  something  seemed  to come  down  on  me  like  a  wet  blanket. No,  not  like  a  blanket,  either.  It clung  to  me  and  bore  me  down,  and smothered  me  all  at  once,  but  it  was transparent,  sir.  I  could  feel  it,  but I  couldn’t  see  it.  It  was  like  a — like a  terrible,  big  jelly-fish,  sir.  It  was cold  and  slimy  and  strong,  strong  as a  hundred  giants.  I  tried  to  call  out, and  it  oozed  into  my  mouth — choked me;  ugh!”  She  shuddered  at  the recollection.  “Then  I  must  have fainted,  for  the  next  thing  I  knew everything  was  dark,  and  I  heard  Dr. Trowbridge  calling  me,  so  I  tried  to call  out  and  kicked  as  hard  as  I  could, and - ”

“And  voila — here  you  are!”  de Grandin  interrupted.  “I  marvel  not you  are  nerveuse,  Mademoiselle. Cordieu,  are  we  not  all  so?

“Attend  me,  Trowbridge,  my friend,”  he  commanded,  “do  you  re¬ main  with  Mademoiselle  Stanton  and the  patient.  Me,  I  shall  go  below  and procure  three  drinks  of  brandy  for us — yes,  morbleu,  four  I  shall  obtain, for  one  I  shall  drink  myself  imme¬ diately,  right  away,  at  once,  before  I return.  Meantime,  watch  well Mademoiselle  Julie,  for  I  think  she will  require  much  watching  before  all is  done.”

A  moment  later  the  clatter  of  his heels  sounded  on  the  polished  boards of  the  hall  floor  as  he  hastened  below stairs  in  search  of  stimulant.

“Tt  is  damnable,  damnable,  my

A  friends!”  the  little  Frenchman cried  a  few  moments  later  as  he,  Cap¬ tain  Loudon  and  I  conferred  in  the lower  hall.  “This  poltergeist,  it  has complete  possession  of  the  poor

Mademoiselle  Julie,  and  it  has  mani¬ fested  itself  to  Mademoiselle  Stanton, as  well.  Pardieu,  if  we  but  knew whence  it  comes,  and  why,  we  might better  be  able  to  combat  it ;  but  all,  all is  mystery.  It  comes,  it  wreaks  havoc, and  it  remains.  Dieu  de  Dieu  de Dieu  de  Dieu!”  He  strode  fiercely back  and  forth  across  the  rug,  twist¬ ing  first  one,  then  the  other  end  of his  diminutive  mustache  until  I thought  he  would  surely  drag  the hairs  from  his  lip.

“If  only  we  could - -”  he  began

again,  striding  across  the  hall  and bringing  up  before  a  buhl  cabinet which  stood  between  two  low  win¬ dows.  “If  only  we  could — ah! What — who  is  this,  Monsieur  le  Car pitaine,  if  you  please?”

His  slender,  carefully  manicured forefinger  pointed  to  an  exquisite little  miniature  which  stood  in  a  gold easel-frame  on  the  cabinet ’s  top.

Looking  over  his  shoulder,  I  saw the  picture  of  a  young  girl,  black¬ haired,  oval-faced,  purple-eyed,  her red  lips  showing  against  the  pallor  of her  face  almost  like  a  wound  in healthy  flesh.  There  was  a  subtle something  of  difference — more  in  ex¬ pression  than  in  feature — from  the original,  nevertheless  I  recognized  the likeness  as  a  well-executed  portrait  of Julia  Loudon,  though  it  had  been made,  I  imagined,  several  years earlier.  “Why,”  I  exclaimed  in astonishment  at  his  question,  “why, it’s  Miss  Loudon,  de  Grandin!”

Ignoring  my  remark,  he  kept  his fixed,  unwinking  stare  upon  the  cap¬ tain,  repeating,  “This  lady,  Monsieur, she  is  who  ?  ’  ’

“It’s  a  picture  of  my  niece,  Julia’s cousin,”  Captain  Loudon  returned shortly;  then:  “Don’t  you  think  we could  occupy  our  time  better  than with  trifles  like  that?  My  daugh¬ ter - ”

“Trifles,  Monsieur!”  de  Grandin cut  in.  “There  are  no  trifles  in  a case  such  as  this.  All,  all  is  of  the

THE  POLTERGEIST


importance.  Tell  me  of  this  young lady,  if  you  please.  There  is  a  so  re¬ markable  resemblance,  yet  a  look  in the  eyes  which  is  not  the  look  of  your daughter.  I  would  know  much  of her,  if  you  please.”

‘‘She  was  my  niece,  Anna  Wassilko,”  the  captain  replied.  “That picture  was  made  in  St.  Petersburg — Petrograd — or  Leningrad,  as  it  is called  now — before  the  World  War.”

“Ah?”  de  Grandin  stroked  his mustache  gently,  as  though  making amends  for  the  furious  pulling  to which  he  had  subjected  it  a  moment before.  “You  did  say  ‘was’,  Mon¬ sieur.  May  I  take  it,  then,  that  she ‘  is  ’  no  more  ?  ”  He  cast  a  speculative glance  at  the  portrait  again,  then continued:  “And  her  name,  so  dif¬ ferent  from  yours,  yet  her  appearance so  like  your  daughter’s.  Will  you not  explain?”

Captain  Loudon  looked  as  though he  would  like  to  wring  the  inquisitive little  Frenchman’s  neck,  but  complied with  his  request  instead.  “My  wife was  a  Rumanian  lady,”  he  began, speaking  with  evident  annoyance.  ‘  ‘  I was  stationed  for  duty  at  our  legation at  Bukharest  in  1895,  and  there  I  met my  wife,  who  was  a  Mademoiselle Seracki.  I  was  married  before  re¬ turning  to  floating  service,  and  my wife’s  twin  sister,  Zoe,  married  Leon¬ idas  Wassilko,  a  young  officer  at¬ tached  to  the  Russian  embassy,  about the  same  time.

“Things  were  beginning  to  move  a little,  even  in  those  days.  One  or  two near-quarrels  with  European  nations over  the  Monroe  Doctrine  had  warned even  the  lunkheads  at  Washington that  we ’d  best  be  getting  some  sort  of navy  in  the  water,  and  there  was  no time  for  a  protracted  honeymoon after  our  marriage.  I  had  to  leave my  bride  of  two  months  and  report for  duty  to  the  flagship  of  the  Med¬ iterranean  Squadron.  Anna,  my wife,  stayed  on  at  Bukharest  for  a time,  then  moved  from  one  port  to

another  along  the  European  coast  so as  to  be  fairly  near  me  when  I  could get  infrequent  furloughs.  Finally  I was  moved  to  the  China  station,  and she  went  to  live  with  her  sister  and brother-in-law  at  St.  Petersburg.  Our baby  Julia  and  their  little  girl,  Anna, were  born  on  the  same  day  and  re¬ sembled  each  other  even  more  than their  mothers  did.

“Following  the  Spanish  War  and my  transfer  to  home  service,  my  wife divided  her  time  between  America and  Europe,  spending  almost  as  much time  in  Russia  as  she  did  in  Washing¬ ton.  Julia  and  Anna  were  educated together  in  a  French  convent  and later  went  to  the  Smolny  Institute  in St.  Petersburg.

‘  ‘  Anna  joined  up  as  a  nurse  in  the Russian  Red  Cross  at  the  outbreak  of the  World  War,  and  was  in  France when  the  Revolution  broke.  That probably  saved  her  life.  Both  her parents  were  shot  by  the  Bolshevists as  reactionaries,  and  she  came  to  live with  us  after  the  Armistice.

“Somehow,  she  didn’t  take  very well  to  American  ways,  and  when Robert — Lieutenant  Proudfit — came along  and  began  paying  court  to Julia,  Anna  seemed  to  take  it  as  a sort  of  personal  affront.  Seems  she had  some  sort  of  fool  idea  she  and Julie  were  more  than  cousins,  and ought  to  remain  celibate  to  devote their  lives  to  each  other.  To  tell  the truth,  though,  I  rather  fancy  she  was more  than  a  little  taken  by  Proudfit herself,  and  when  he  preferred  Julia to  her — well,  it  didn’t  please  her  any too  much.”

“Ah?”  de  Grandin  breathed,  a trace  of  the  heat-liglitning  flash  which betokened  excitement  showing  in  his cool  eyes.  “And  Mademoiselle  Anna, she  is - ”

“She — died,  poor  child,”  Loudon responded.

“She  did  commit  suicide?”  the Frenchman’s  words  were  so  low  we could  scarcely  hear  them.


WEIRD  TALES

‘  ‘  I  didn ’t  say  that,  ’  ’  the  captain  re¬ turned  coldly.

“Pardonnez-moi,  Monsieur  le  Capitaine,”  the  other  shot  back,  “but you  did  not  say  otherwise,  and  the pause  before  you  mentioned  her  death — surely  that  was  something  more than  a  tribute  of  momentary  re¬ gret?”

“Humph!  Yes,  you’re  right.  The poor  youngster  committed  suicide  by drowning  herself  about  six  months ago.”

“Six  months,  did  you  say?”  the little  Frenchman’s  face  was  so  near his  host’s  that  I  feared  the  spike  of his  waxed  mustache  would  scratch  the captain’s  cheek.  “Six  months  ago she  did  drown  herself.  In  the  ocean  ? And  Mademoiselle  Julie’s  engage¬ ment  to  Lieutenant  Proudfit,  it  was announced — when?”

“It  had  just  been  announced — but look  here,  I  say,  see  here - ”  Cap¬

tain  Loudon  began  violent  protest, but  de  Grandin  was  grinning  mirth¬ lessly  at  him.

“I  look  there,  Monsieur,”  he  re¬ plied,  “and  I  see  there.  Parble-u,  I see  far  past !  Six  months,  six  months, everything,  it  dates  from  six  months of  yore !  The  death  of  Mademoiselle Anna,  the  engagement  of  Mademoi¬ selle  Julie,  the  tapping  at  her  win¬ dow,  the  beginning  of  these  so strange  signs  and  wonders — all  are six  months  old.  Grace  d  Dieu,  my friend,  I  begin  to  see  the  light  at last.  Come,  Trowbridge,  my  friend, first  for  the  information,  then  the action!”

Turning  on  his  heel,  he  mounted the  stairs,  three  at  a  time,  beckoning me  violently  as  he  did  so.

“  1VTADEM0ISELLE  —  Mademoiselle Julie!”  he  cried,  bursting into  the  patient’s  room  with  hardly a  perceptible  pause  between  his knock  and  the  nurse’s  summons  to enter.  “You  have  not  told  me  all, Mademoiselle,  no,  nor  near  all !  This

Mademoiselle  Anna,  who  was  she, and  what  relation  was  there  between you  and  her?  Of  haste,  speak quickly,  it  is  important  that  I  should know  all!”

“Why,”  Miss  Loudon  looked  at him  with  startled  eyes,  “she  was  my cousin.”

“But  yes,  that  much  I  know. What  I  desire  to  learn  is  if  there  was some  close  bond,  some  secret  under¬ standing  between  you.”

The  girl  regarded  him  fixedly  a moment,  then:  “Yes,  there  was. Both  of  us  were  in  love  with  Lieu¬ tenant  Proudfit;  but  he  seemed  to prefer  me,  for  some  reason.  When Anna  saw  he  was  proof  against  all her  wiles — and  she  was  an  accom¬ plished  coquette— she  became  very morose,  and  talked  constantly  of  sui¬ cide.  I  tried  to  laugh  her  out  of  the idea,  but  she  persisted.  Finally,  I began  to  believe  she  was  serious,  and I  told  her,  ‘If  you  kill  yourself,  so will  I,  then  there’ll  be  two  of  us  dead and  nobody  any  the  happier.’  ”

“Ah?”  de  Grandin  regarded  her intently.  “And  then?”

“She  gave  me  one  of  those  queer, long  looks  of  hers,  and  said,  ‘Maybe I  hold  you  to  that  promise,  cousin. Jizn  kopyeka — life  is  but  a  kopeck — maybe  we  spend  him,  you  and  I.’ And  that  was  all  she  said  at  the  time. But  two  months  later,  just  before Lieutenant  Proudfit  and  I  announced our  engagement,  she  left  me  a  note:

Have  gone  to  spend  my  bopeck.  Remem¬ ber  your  promise  and  do  likewise.

“Next  morning - ”

“Yes?”  de  Grandin  prompted.

“Next  morning  they  took  her  from the  bay — drowned.”

“A-a-h!”  he  let  the  single syllable  out  slowly  through  his  teeth with  a  sort  of  hissing  finality.  “Aa-ah,  at  last,  Mademoiselle,  I  do  un¬ derstand.”

“You  mean - ”

“Parbleu,  I  mean  nothing  less. Tonight,  she  did  say?  Morbleu,  toTHE  POLTERGEIST


night  we  shall  see  what  we  shall  see!

“Stay  you  here,  Friend  Trow¬ bridge/'  he  ordered.  “Me,  I  go  to procure  that  which  is  necessary  for our  work  this  night !  ”

He  was  through  the  door  like  a shot,  rushing  down  the  stairs  three steps  at  a  stride,  banging  the  front door  behind  him  without  a  word  of farewell  or  explanation  to  his  as¬ tounded  host.

Darkness  had  fallen  when  he  re¬ turned,  a  small  black  bag  in  his hand  and  an  expression  of  unbridled excitement  on  his  face.  “Any change  in  our  patient?’’  he  de¬ manded  as  he  entered  the  house. “Any  further  manifestations  of  that accursed  poltergeist?”

“No,”  I  reported,  “everything has  been  singularly  calm  this  after¬ noon.  ’  ’

“Ah,  so?  Then  we  shall  have  the harder  fight  tonight.  The  enemy, she  does  marshal  his  forces!”

He  tiptoed  to  the  sickroom,  en¬ tered  quietly,  and  took  a  seat  beside the  bed,  detailing  his  experiences  in the  city  with  lively  interest.  Once or  twice  it  seemed  to  me  the  patient’s attention  wandered  as  he  continued his  recital,  but  his  conversation  never faltered.  He  had  seen  the  beautiful flowers  in  Fifth  Avenue!  The  furs in  the  shops  were  of  the  exquisite¬ ness  !  Never  was  there  such  a  parade of  beauty,  culture  and  refinement  as could  be  found  in  that  so  wonderful street !

I  listened  open-mouthed  with wonder.  Time  given  to  extraneous matters  when  he  was  engaged  in  a case  was  time  wasted  according  to  his ideas,  I  knew,  yet  here  he  sat  and chattered  like  a  gossiping  magpie  to a  girl  who  plainly  took  small  interest in  his  talk.

Eight  o’clock  struck  on  the  tall clock  in  the  hall  below,  still  he  re¬ lated  humorous  incidents  in  his  life, and  described  the  chestnut  trees  and

the  whistling  blackbirds  at  St.  Cloud or  the  students’  masked  balls  in  the Latin  Quarter.  “What  ails  the man?”  I  muttered  to  myself.  “He rambles  on  like  a  wound-up  phono¬ graph  !  ’  ’

It  must  have  been  about  a  quarter of  9  when  the  change  began  to  show itself  in  our  patient.  From  polite inattention  her  attitude  toward  the Frenchman  became  something  like open  hostility.  In  another  five  min¬ utes  she  seemed  to  have  lost  all  re¬ membrance  ,of  his  presence,  and  lay with  her  eyes  turned  toward  the ceiling.  Then,  gradually  but  surely, there  came  into  her  already  too  thin face  a  pinched,  drawn  look,  the  sure sign  of  physical  and  nervous  ex¬ haustion.

“Ah-ha,  we  do  begin  to  com¬ mence!”  de  Grandin  exclaimed  ex¬ ultantly,  reaching  beneath  his  chair and  opening  the  little  black  bag  he Iiad  deposited  there.

From  the  satchel  he  produced  an odd-looking  contrivance,  something like  the  toy  rotary  fans  to  be  bought at  novelty  shops — the  sort  of  fan which  consists  of  three  twisted  blades, like  reversed  propeller  wings,  and which  is  made  to  whirl  by  the  pres¬ sure  of  the  thumb  against  a  trigger fitted  in  the  handle.  But  this  fan, instead  of  having  blades  of  colored metal,  was  supplied  with  brightly nickeled  arms  which  shone  in  the lamplight  like  a  trio  of  new  mirrors.

“Observe,  Mademoiselle;  behold!” de  Grandin  cried  sharply,  signing  to me  to  turn  the  electric  bulbs  on  full strength  at  the  same  time.

The  girl’s  languid  gaze  lowered from  the  ceiling  a  moment  and  rested on  the  little  Frenchman.  Instantly he  advanced  the  mirror-fan  to  with¬ in  six  inches  of  her  face  and  began spinning  it  violently  with  quick, sharp  jerks  at  the  rotating  loop. “Regardez,  si’l  vous  plait,”  he  or¬ dered,  spinning  the  whirling  mirrors faster  and  faster.

WEIRD  TALES

The  three  bright  pieces  of  metal seemed  to  merge  into  a  single  disk, but  from  their  flying  it  seemed  that countless  tiny  rays  of  light  fell  away, like  water  scattered  from  a  swiftlyturning  paddle-wheel.  For  an  in¬ stant  the  girl  regarded  the  bright, whirling  mirrors  without  interest, then  her  eyes  seemed  gradually  to converge  toward  the  bridge  of  her nose  as  they  sought  to  follow  the fan’s  rotations,  and  a  fixed,  rapt  ex¬ pression  began  to  steal  over  her features.

“Sleep,  sleep  and  rest.  Sleep  and hear  no  orders  from  those  who  wish you  ill.  Sleep,  sleep — sleep!”  de Grandin  commanded  in  low,  earnest tones.

Slowly,  peacefully,  her  lids  low¬ ered  over  her  fascinated  eyes,  her breast  rose  and  fell  convulsively  once or  twice,  then  her  gentle  breathing told  us  she  had  obeyed  his  command and  lay  fast  in  quiet  sleep.

“What - ”  I  began,  but  he

waved  me  back  impatiently.

“Another  time,  my  friend,”  he promised  with  a  quick  gesture  of warning.  “At  present  we  must  not talk ;  there  is  too  much  at  stake.  ’  ’

All  through  the  night  he  sat  beside the  bed,  raising  his  whirling  mirrors and  commanding  sleep  in  tones  of suppressed  fury  each  time  the  girl stirred  on  her  pillow.  And  each  time his  order  was  implicitly  obeyed.  The patient  slept  continuously  till  the first  faint  streaks  of  dawn  began  to show  against  the  eastern  sky.

“Now,  then,”  he  cried,  springing from  his  chair,  reopening  his  black bag  and  bringing  .  forth — of  all things ! — a  hyssop  of  mistletoe  bough. Around  and  around  the  room  he dashed  with  a  sort  of  skipping  step, for  all  the  world  like  a  country woman  fanning  flies  from  the  house in  summertime.

“Anna  Wassilko,  Anna  Wassilko, who  has  wandered  beyond  the  bounds

of  the  tomb,”  he  ordered  as  he  waved his  little  brush-broom,  “I  command that  you  return  whenee  you  came. To  Death  you  have  said,  ‘Thou  art my  lord  and  my  master,’  and  to  the Grave,  ‘Thou  art  my  lover  and  my betrothed.’  Your  business  in  this world  is  done,  Anna  Wassilko;  get you  to  the  world  you  chose  for  your dwelling  place  when  you  cast  your body  into  the  sea!”

Near  the  window,  where  the  dim¬ ming  electric  bulbs’  light  mingled with  the  beams  of  the  waning  moon and  the  flushing  rays  of  the  coming morning,  he  repeated  his  command three  times,  waving  his  brush  for¬ ward  and  outward  toward  the  ocean which  surged  and  boomed  on  the beach  a  quarter-mile  away.  '

Something  seemed  to  brush  by  him, something  invisible,  but  tangible enough  to  stir  the  white  scrim  cur¬ tains  trailing  lazily  in  the  still  air, and  for  a  moment  I  thought  I  caught the  faint  penumbra  of  a  shadow  cast against  the  ivory  wall.  A  monstrous thing  it  was,  large  as  a  lion,  yet  like nothing  I  had  ever  seen  or  imagined, for  it  seemed  to  resemble  both  a  bat and  fox,  with  long,  pointed  snout, claw-armed  forepaws  and  great, spike-edged  wings  extending  to  each side  from  close  behind  the  head.

“Get  you  gone,  unfortunate  one,” de  Grandin  cried,  striking  directly  at the  shadow  with  his  sprigs  of  mistle¬ toe.  “Poor  soul  who  would  collect the  wager  of  a  thoughtless  promise, hie  you  back  to  your  own  place  and leave  the  ordering  of  other  lives  to God.”

The  terrible  shadow  rested  against the  pale  wall  another  fraction  of  a second,  then,  like  smoke  borne  away in  a  rising  breeze,  it  was  gone.

“Gone,”  de  Grandin  repeated softly,  closing  the  window  and  shut¬ ting  off  the  lights.  “Call  the  nurse, I  pray  you,  Friend  Trowbridge.  Her duties  will  be  simpler  hereafter.  A little  medicine,  a  little  tonic,  and

THE  POLTERGEIST


much  rest  and  food  will  see  Made¬ moiselle  Julie  as  well  as  ever.”

Together  we  tiptoed  into  the  hall, roused  the  sleeping  nurse  and  turned the  patient  over  to  her  care.

“  A  nd  now  the  other  time  you  spoke -**-  of  last  night  has  come,  I  sup¬ pose?”  I  said,  rather  huffily,  as  we drove  home.  “You  were  close¬ mouthed  enough  about  it  all  while  it was  happening.  Will  you  explain now  ?  ’  ’

"Most  certainly,”  he  returned  in high  good  humor,  lighting  a  cigar¬ ette,  breathing  in  a  great  lungful  of smoke,  then  discharging  the  vapor with  a  sigh  of  gusty  content.  "It  was most  simple — like  everything  else — when  once  I  knew  the  answer.

"To  begin:  When  first  Captain Loudon  explained  his  daughter’s case,  it  seemed  like  one  of  simple hysteria  to  me,  and  one  which  any capable  physician  could  cure.  ‘Why, then,’  I  ask  me,  ‘does  Monsieur  le Capitaine  seek  the  services  of  Jules de  Grandin?  I  am  not  a  great  phy¬ sician.’  I  have  no  answer,  and  at first  I  decline  the  case,  as  you  know.

"But  when  we  go  to  his  house  and behold  Mademoiselle  Julie  all  uncon¬ scious  as  she  wandered  about,  I  was of  another  mind;  and  when  I  hear the  noises  which  accompanied  her,  I was  of  still  a  third  mind.  But  when that  evil  one  hurled  a  knife  at  my head,  I  said  to  me,  ‘Parbleu,  it  is  the challenge!  Shall  Jules  de  Grandin fly  from  such  a  contest  ?  ’

“Now,  across  the  Rhine  from France,  those  bodies  have  some  words which  are  most  expressive.  Among them  is  poltergeist,  which  signifies  a pelting  ghost,  a  ghost  which  flings things  around -the  house.  But  more often  he  is  not  a  ghost  at  all,  he  is' some  evil  entity  which  plagues  a  man, or  more  frequently  a  woman.  Not .  for  nothing,  my  friend,  did  the ancients  refer  to  Satan  as  the  Prince of  the  Powers  of  the  Air,  for  there  are w.  T— 3

many  very  evil  things  in  the  air which  we  can  no  more  see  than  we can  behold  the  germs  of  disease. Yes.”  He  nodded  solemn  affirma¬ tion.

"But  when  Mademoiselle  Julie tells  me  of  the  mark  which  came  on her  arm,  and  I  recognized  the  Ru¬ manian  word  for  demon,  I  think  some more.  And  when  she  tells  me  of  the bird  or  bat  which  fluttered  at  her window  and  yet  was  not  there,  I recognize  many  things  in  common with  other  cases  I  have  observed-

"Foolish  people,  my  friend,  some¬ times  say,  ‘  Come  in,  ’  when  they  think the  wind  has  blown  their  door  ajar. It  is  not  well  to  do  so.  Who  knows what  invisible  terror  awaits  without, needing  only  the  spoken  invitation unthinkingly  made  to  enter?  For  at¬ tend  me,  my  friend,  very  rarely  can the  evil  ones  come  in  unless  they  are first  invited,  and  very  rarely  can they  be  gotten  out  once  they  have been  bidden  to  enter.  So  all  these things  fit  together  in  my  mind,  and  I say  to  me,  ‘Morbleu,  we  have  here  a poltergeist,  and  nothing  else.  Cer¬ tainly.  ’

"But  why  should  a  poltergeist  at¬ tach  his  evil  self  to  that  sweet Mademoiselle  Julie?  True,  she  are very  pretty,  but  there  are  other pretty  women  in  the  world  of  whom the  poltergeister  do  not  seek  shelter.

"Then  when  the  demon  tell  us  he hold  her  completely  in  his  power  and makes  her  to  dance  almost  nude  in her  father’s  house  and  sticks  pins  and needles  in  her,  I  hear  something  else. I  hear  him  promise  to  take  her  life.

"Why?  What  have  she  done  that she  must  die?

"Then  I  see  the  picture  of  Anna Wassilko.  Very  like  Mademoiselle Julie  she  was,  but  there  was  a  subtle something  in  her  face  which  makes me  know  she  was  not  the  same.  And what  story  does  Monsieur  le  Capi¬ taine  tell  when  I  ask  about  her?  Ah, now  we  begin  to  see  the  light!  She


WEIRD  TALES

were  Rumanian  by  birth  and  partly by  ancestry.  Very  good.  She  had gone  to  school  with  her  cousin, Mademoiselle  Julie.  Again  good. She  had  lived  in  the  same  house  here, she  had  loved  the  same  man,  and  she had  committed  suicide ;  best  of  all.  I need  now  only  a  little  reassuring  as to  the  reason  why — the  result  I already  know.

“You  know  what  Mademoiselle Julie  told  us ;  it  all  fitted  in  well  with the  theory  I  had  formed.  But  there was  work  to  be  done  that  night.

“The  demon  which  made  Julie  do all  kinds  of  things  she  knew  not  of had  promised  to  take  her  life.  How to  circumvent  her?  That  were  the question.

‘  ‘  I  think.  ‘  This  young  woman  goes off  into  trances,  and  does  all  manner of  queer  things  without  knowing  of them,’  I  inform  me.  ‘Would  she  not do  much  the  same  in  a  state  of  hyp¬ nosis?’  Assuredly.  Very  well,  then.

“I  procure  me  a  set  of  whirling mirrors,  not  because  there  is  any magic  in  them  but  because  they  are the  easiest  thing  to  focus  the  subject’s attention.  Last  night  I  use  them, and  hypnotize  Mademoiselle  Julie  be¬ fore  die  poltergeist  has  a  chance  to conquer  her  consciousness.  Hypno¬ tism,  when  all  is  said  and  done,  is  the rendering  of  a  subject’s  objective mind  passive  while  the  mind  of  the operator  is  substituted  for  that  of  the subject.  The  poltergeist,  which  was really  the  revenant  of  Anna,  had  sub¬ stituted  her  mind  for  Julie’s  on former  occasions;  now  I  get  there first,  and  place  my  mind  in  her  brain. There  is  no  room  for  the  other,  and Mademoiselle  Julie  can  not  take  sug¬ gestions  or  brain-hints  from  the  ghost and  destroy  herself.  No,  Jules  de Grandin  is  already  in  possession  of her  brain-house,  and  he  says  ‘No  Ad¬

mission’  to  all  others  who  try  to come  in.  Mademoiselle  Julie  slept peacefully  through  the  night,  as  you did  observe.  ’  ’

“But  what  was  all  that  monkey business  with  the  mistletoe?’’  I  de¬ manded.

“Tiens,  my  friend,  the  monkey’s business  had  nothing  to  do  with that, ”  he  assured  me.  “Do  you,  per¬ haps,  remember  what  the  mistletoe stands  for  at  Noel  f”

“You  mean  a  kiss?”

“What  else?  It  is  the  plant  held sacred  to  lovers  in  this  day,  but  in the  elder  times  it  was  the  holy  bush of  the  Druids.  With  it  they  cast many  spells,  and  with  it  they  cast  out many  evil-workers.  Not  by  mistake  is it  the  lover’s  tree  today,  for  it  is  a powerful  charm  against  evil  and  will assuredly  lay  the  unhappy  ghost  of one  who  dies  because  of  unfortunate love.  Voild — you  do  catch  the  con¬ nection?”

“I  never  heard  that  before - ”  I

began,  but  he  cut  me  short  with  a chuckle.

“Much  you  have  never  heard, Trowbridge,  my  friend,”  he  accused, “yet  all  of  it  is  true,  none  the  less.”

“And  that  hideous  shadow?”

He  sobered  instantly.  “Who  can say?  In  life  Mademoiselle  Anna  was beautiful,  but  she  went  forth  from the  world  uncalled  and  in  an  evil way,  my  friend.  Who  knows  what evil  shape  she  is  doomed  to  wear  in the  next  life?  The  less  we  think  on that  subject  the  better  for  our  sleep hereafter.

“Come,  we  are  at  your  house  once more.  Let  us  drink  one  glass  of brandy  for  luck’s  sake,  then  to  sleep. Mordieu,  me,  I  feel  as  though  I  had been  stranger  to  my  bed  since  my fifth  birthday!”

ONE  by  one  the  pale  stars  in the  sky  overhead  had  twin¬ kled  fainter  and  gone  otft. One  by  one  those  flaming  lights had  dimmed  and  darkened.  One  by one  they  had  vanished  forever,  and in  their  places  had  come  patches  of ink  that  blotted  ont  immense  areas  of a  sky  once  luminous  with  stars.

Years  had  passed;  centuries  had fled  backward ;  the  accumulating thousands  had  turned  into  millions, and  they,  too,  had  faded  into  the  ob¬ livion  of  eternity.  The  earth  had disappeared.  The  sun  had  cooled  and hardened,  and  had  dissolved  into  the dust  of  its  grave.  The  solar  system

and  innumerable  other  systems  had broken  up  and  vanished,  and  their fragments  had  swelled  the  clouds  of dust  which  were  engulfing  the  entire universe.  In  the  billions  of  years which  had  passed,  sweeping  every¬ thing  on  toward  the  gathering  doom, the  huge  bodies,  once  countless,  that had  dotted  the  sky  and  hurtled through  unmeasurable  immensities  of space  had  lessened  in  number  and  dis¬ integrated  until  the  black  pall  of  the sky  was  broken  only  at  rare  intervals by  dim  spots  of  light — light  ever growing  paler  and  darker.

No  one  knew  when  the  dust  had  be¬ gun  to  gather,  but  far  back  in  the  for631


WEIRD  TALES

gotten  dawn  of  time  the  dead  worlds had  vanished,  unremembered  and  unmoumed.

Those  were  the  nuclei  of  lie  dust. Those  were  the  progenitors  of  the  uni¬ versal  dissolution  which  now  ap¬ proached  its  completion.  Those  were the  stars  which  had  first  burned  out, died,  and  wasted  away  in  myriads  of atoms.  Those  were  the  mushroom growths  whieh  had  first  passed  into nothingness  in  a  puff  of  dust.

Slowly  the  faint  wisps  had  gath¬ ered  into  clouds,  the  clouds  into  seas, and  the  seas  into  monstrous  oceans of  gently  heaving  dust,  dust  that drifted  from  dead  and  dying  worlds, from  interstellar  collisions  of  plung¬ ing  stars,  from  rushing  meteors  and streaming  eomets  whieh  flamed  from the  void  and  hurtled  into  the  abyss.

The  dust  had  spread  and  spread. The  dim  luminosity  of  the  heavens had  become  fainter  as  great  blots  of blade  appeared  far  in  the  outer depths  of  Space.  In  all  the  millions and  billions  and  trillions  of  years  that had  fled  into  the  past,  the  cosmic  dust had  been  gathering,  and  the  starry horde  had  been  dwindling.  There was  a  time  when  the  universe  con¬ sisted  of  hundreds  of  millions  of stars,  planets,  and  suns ;  but  they were  ephemeral  as  life  or  dreams,  and they  faded  and  vanished,  one  by  one.

The  smaller  worlds  were  obliter¬ ated  first,  then  the  larger,  and  so  in ever-ascending  steps  to  the  unchecked giants  whieh  roared  their  fury  and blazed  their  whiteness  through  the conquering  dust  and  the  realms  of night.  Never  did  the  Cosmic  Dust cease  its  hellish  and  relentless  war  on the  universe;  it  choked  the  little aerolites;  rt  swallowed  the  helpless satellites;  it  swirled  around  the  leap¬ ing  comets  that  rocketed  from  one black  end  of  the  universe  to  the other,  flaming  their  trailing  splendor, tearing  paths  of  wild  adventure through  horizonless  infinitudes  the dust  already  ruled;  it  clawed  at  the

planets  and  sueked  their  very  being; it  washed,  hateful  and  brooding, about  the  monarehs  and  plucked  at their  lands  and  deserts.

Thicker,  thicker,  always  thicker grew  the  Cosmic  Dust,  until  the giants  no  longer  could  watch  eaeh other’s  gyres  far  aeross  the  void.  In¬ stead,  they  thundered  through  the waste,  lonely,  despairing,  and  lost. In  solitary  grandeur  they  burned their  brilliant  beauty.  In  solitary defeat  and  death  they  disappeared.

Of  all  the  stars  in  all  the  countless host  that  once  had  spotted  the heavens,  there  remained  only  Antares.  Antares,  immensest  of  the stars,  alone  was  left,  the  last  body  in the  universe,  inhabited  by  the  last race  ever  to  have  consciousness,  ever to  live.  That  race,  in  hopeless  com¬ passion,  had  watched  the  darkening skies  and  had  counted  with  miserly care  the  stars  which  resisted.  Every one  that  twinkled  out  wrenched  their hearts;  every  one  that  ceased  to struggle  and  was  swallowed  by  the tides  of  dust  added  a  new  strain  to the  national  anthem,  that  indescrib¬ able  melody,  that  infinitely  somber psean  of  doom  which  tolled  a  solemn harmony  in  every  heart  of  the  dying race.  The  dwellers  had  built  a  great crystal  dome  around  their  world  in order  to  keep  out  the  dust  and  to keep  in  the  atmosphere,  and  under this  dome  the  watchers  kept  thensilent  sentinel.  The  Shadows  had swept  in  faster  and  faster  from  the farther  realms  of  darkness,  engulfing more  rapidly  the  last  of  the  stars. The  astronomers’  task  had  become easier,  but  the  saddest  on  .Antares : that  of  watching  Death  and  Oblivion spread  a  pall  of  blackness  over  all that  was,  all  that  would  be.

The  last  star,  Mira,  second  only  to Antares,  had  shone  frostily  pale, twinkled  more  darkly — and  vanished. There  was  nothing  in  all  Space  ex¬ cept  an  illimitable  expanse  of  dust that  stretehed  on  and  on  in  every  diTHE  RED  BRAIN


rection;  only  this,  and  Antares.  No longer  did  the  astronomers  watch  the heavens  to  glimpse  again  that  dying star  before  it  succumbed.  No  longer did  they  scan  the  upper  reaches — everywhere  swirled  the  dust,  en¬ shrouding  Space  with  a  choking blackness.  Once  there  had  been sown  through  the  abyss  a  multitude of  morbidly  beautiful  stars,  whitely shining,  wan — now  there  was  none. Once  there  had  been  light  in  the sky — now  there  was  none.  Once there  had  been  a  dim  phosphor¬ escence  in  the  vault — now  it  was  a heavy-hanging  pall  of  ebony,  a  ray¬ less  realm  of  gloom,  a  smothering thing  of  blackness  eternal  and infinite.

“'\X/e  meet  again  in  this  Hall  of »  »  the  Mist,  not  in  the  hope  that a  remedy  has  been  found,  but  that  we find  how  best  it  is  fitting  that  we  die. We  meet,  not  in  the  vain  hope  that we  may  control  the  dust,  but  in  the hope  that  we  may  triumph  even  as  we are  obliterated.  We  can  not  win  the struggle,  save  in  meeting  our  death heroically.  ’  ’

The  speaker  paused.  All  around him  towered  a  hall  of  Space  rampant. Far  above  spread  a  vague  roof  whose flowing  sides  melted  into  the  lost  and dreamy  distances,  a  roof  supported by  unseen  walls  and  by  the  mighty pillars  which  rolled  upward  at  long intervals  from  the  smoothly  marbled floor.  A  faint  haze  seemed  always  to be  hanging  in  the  air  because  of  the measureless  lengths  of  that  architect¬ ural  colossus.  Dim  in  the  distance, the  speaker  reclined  on  a  metal  dais raised  above  the  sea  of  beings  in  front of  him.  But  he  was  not,  in  reality, a  speaker,  nor  was  he  a  being  such  as those  which  had  inhabited  the  world called  Earth.

Evolution,  because  of  the  unusual conditions  on  Antares,  had  proceeded along  lines  utterly  different  from those  followed  on  the  various  bodies

which  had  dotted  the  heavens  when the  deep  was  sprinkled  with  stars  in the  years  now  gone.  Antares  was  the hugest  sun  that  had  leaped  from  the primeval  chaos.  When  it  cooled,  it cooled  far  more  slowly  than  the others,  and  when  life  once  began  it was  assured  of  an  existence  not  of thousands,  not  of  millions,  but  of  bil¬ lions  of  years.

That  life,  when  it  began,  had passed  from  the  simple  forms  to  the age  of  land  juggernauts,  and  so  by steps  on  and  on  up  the  scale.  The civilizations  of  other  worlds  had reached  their  apex  and  the  worlds themselves  become  cold  and  lifeless  at the  time  when  the  mighty  civilization of  Antares  was  beginning.  The  star had  then  passed  through  a  period  of warfare  until  such  terrific  and  fear¬ ful  scourges  of  destruction  were  pro¬ duced  that  in  the  Two  Days  War seven  billion  of  the  eight  and  onehalf  billion  inhabitants  were  slaugh¬ tered.  Those  two  days  of  carnage ended  war  for  eons.

From  then  on,  the  golden  age  be¬ gan.  The  minds  of  the  people  of Antares  became  bigger  and  bigger, their  bodies  proportionately  smaller, until  the  cycle  eventually  was  com¬ pleted.  Every  being  in  front  of  the speaker  was  a  monstrous  heap  of black  viscidity,  each  mass  an  enor¬ mous  brain,  a  sexless  thing  that  lived for  Thought.  Long  ago  it  had  been discovered  that  life  could  be  created artificially  in  tissue  formed  in  the laboratories  of  the  chemists..  Sex was  thus  destroyed,  and  the  inhab¬ itants  no  longer  spent  their  time  in taking  care  of  families.  Nearly  all the  countless  hours  that  were  saved were  put  into  scientific  advance,  with the  result  that  the  star  leaped  for¬ ward  in  an  age  of  progress  never paralleled.

The  beings,  rapidly  becoming Brains,  found  that  by  the  extermina¬ tion  of  the  parasites  and  bacteria  on Antares,  by  changing  their  own  or534

WEIRD  TALES

gariic  structure,  and  by  willing  to live,  they  approached  immortality. They  discovered  the  secrets  of  Time and  Space;  they  knew  the  extent  of the  universe,  and  how  Space  in  its farther  reaches  became  self-annihilat¬ ing.  They  knew  that  life  was  selfcreated  and  controlled  its  own  period of  duration.  They  knew  that  when  a life,  tired  of  existence,  killed  itself,  it was  dead  forever;  it  could  not  live again,  for  death  was  the  final  chem¬ ical  change  of  life.

These  were  the  shapes  that  spread in  the  vast  sea  before  the  speaker. They  were  shapes  because  they  could assume  any  form  they  wished.  Their all-powerful  minds  had  oomplete  con¬ trol  of  that  which  was  themselves. When  the  Brains  were  desirous  of traveling,  they  relaxed  from  their usual  semi-rigidity  and  flowed  from place  to  place  like  a  stream  of  ink rushing  down  a  hill ;  when  they  were tired,  they  flattened  into  disks ;  when expounding  their  thoughts,  they  be¬ came  towering  pillars  of  rigid  ooze; and  when  lost  in  abstraction,  or  in  a pleasurable  contemplation  of  the  un- •bounded  worlds  created  in  their minds,  within  whidk  they  often wandered,  they  resembled  huge, dormant  balls.

From  the  speaker  himself  had come  no  sound  although  he  had  im¬ parted  his  thoughts  to  his  sentient assembly.  The  thoughts  of  the Brains,  when  their  minds  permitted, emanated  to  those  about  them  in¬ stantly,  lfke  electric  waves.  Antares was  a  world  of  unbroken  silence.

The  Great  Brain’s  thoughts  con¬ tinued  to  flow  out.  “Long  ago,  the approaching  doom  became  known  to us  all.  We  could  do  nothing.  It does  not  matter  greatly,  of  course, for  existence  is  a  useless  tiling  which benefits  no  one.  But  nevertheless,  at that  meeting  in  an  unremembered year,  we  asked  those  who  were  willing to  try  to  think  of  some  possible  way of  saving  our  own  star,  at  least,  if

not  the  others.  There  was  no  reward offered,  for  there  was  no  reward  ade¬ quate.  All  that  the  Brain  would  re¬ ceive  would  be  glory  as  one  of  the greatest  which  has  ever  been  pro¬ duced.  The  rest  of  us,  too,  would  re¬ ceive  only  the  effects  of  that  glory  in the  knowledge  that  we  had  conquered Fate,  hitherto,  and  still,  considered inexorable;  we  would  derive  pleasure only  from  the  fact  that  we,  selfcreating  and  all  but  supreme,  had made  ourselves  supreme  by  conquer¬ ing  the  most  powerful  menace  which has  ever  attacked  life,  time,  and  the universe:  the  Cosmic  Dust.

“Our  most  intelligent  Brains  have been  thinking  on  this  one  subject  for untold  millions  of  years.  They  have excluded  from  their  thoughts  every¬ thing  except  the  question:  How  can the  dust  be  checked  I  They  have  pro¬ duced  innumerable  plans  which  have been  tested  thoroughly.  All  have failed.  We  have  hurled  into  the  void uncontrollable  bolts  of  lightning,  in¬ terplanetary  sheets  of  flame,  in  the hope  that  we  might  fuse  masses  of the  dust  into  new,  incandeseent worlds.  We  have  anchored  huge magnets  throughout  Space,  hoping  to attract  the  dust,  which  is  faintly magnetic,  and  thus  to  solidify  it  or clear  much  of  it  from  the  waste.  We have  caused  fearful  disturbances  by exploding  our  most  powerful  com¬ pounds  in  the  realms  about  us,  hop¬ ing  to  set  the  dust  so  violently  in motion  that  the  chaos  would  become tempestuous  with  the  storms  of creation.  With  our  rays  of  annihila¬ tion,  we  have  blasted  billion-mile paths  through  the  ceaselessly  surging dust.  We  have  destroyed  the  life  on Betelgeuse  and  rooted  there  titanic developers  of  vacua,  sprawling,  whir¬ ring  machines  to  suck  the  dust  from Space  and  heap  it  up  ctn  that  star. We  have  liberated  enormous  quan¬ tities  of  gas,  lit  them,  and  sent  the hot  and  furious  fires  madly  flashing through  the  affrighted  dust.  In  our

THE  RED  BRAIN


desperation,  we  have  even  asked  for the  aid  of  the  Ether-Eaters.  Yes,  we have  in  finality  exercised  our  WillPower  to  sweep  back  the  rolling  bil¬ lows!  In  vain!  What  has  been  ac¬ complished?  The  dust  has  retreated for  a  moment,  has  paused — and  has welled  onward.  It  has  returned silently  triumphant,  and  it  has  again hung  its  pall  of  blackness  over  a  fearhaunted,  nightmare-ridden  Space.”

Swelling  in  soundless  sorrow through  the  Hall  of  the  Mist  rose  the racing  thoughts  of  the  Great  Brain. “Our  chemists  with  a  bitter  dogged¬ ness  never  before  displayed  have  de¬ voted  their  time  to  the  production  of Super-Brains,  in  the  hope  of  making one  which  could  defeat  the  Cosmic Dust.  They  have  changed  the  chem¬ icals  used  in  our  genesis;  they  have experimented  with  molds  and  forms; they  have  tried  every  resource..  With what  result?  There  have  come  forth raging  monstrosities,  mad  abomina¬ tions,  satanic  horrors  and  ravenous foul  things  howling  wildly  the  name¬ less  and  indescribable  phantoms  that thronged  their  minds.  We  have killed  them  in  order  to  save  ourselves. And  the  Dust  has  pushed  onward! We  have  appealed  to  every  living Brain  to  help  us.  We  appealed,  in the  forgotten,  dream-veiled  centuries, for  aid  in  any  form.  From  time  to time  we  have  been  offered  plans, which  for  a  while  have  made  terrific inroads  on  the  Dust,  but  plans  which have  always  failed.

“The  triumph  of  the  Cosmic  Dust has  almost  come.  There  is  so  little time  left  us  that  our  efforts  now  must inevitably  be  futile.  But  today,  in the  hope  that  some  Brain,  either  of the  old  ones  or  of  the  gigantic  new ones,  has  discovered  a  possibility  not yet  tried,  we  have  called  this  confer¬ ence,  the  first  in  more  than  twelve thousand  years.”

The  tense,  alert  silence  of  the  hall relaxed  and  became  soft  when

the  thoughts  of  the  Great  Brain  had stopped  flowing.  The  electric  waves which  had  filled  the  vast  Hall  of  the Mist  sank,  and  for  a  long  time  a strange  tranquillity  brooded  there. But  the  mass  was  never  still ;  the  sea in  front  of  the  dais  rippled  and  bil¬ lowed  from  time  to  time  as  waves  of thought  passed  through  it.  Yet  no Brain  offered  to  speak,  and  the  seeth¬ ing  expanse,  as  the  minutes  crept  by, again  became  quiet.

In  a  thin  column  on  the  dais,  rising high  into  the  air,  swayed  the  Great Brain;  again  and  again  it  swept  its glance  around  the  hall,  peering among  the  rolling,  heaving  shapes  in the  hope  of  finding  somewhere  in those  thousands  one  which  could  offer a  suggestion.  But  the  minutes passed,  and  time  lengthened,  with  no response ;  and  the  sadness  of  the  fixed and  changeless  end  crept  across  the last  race.  And  the  Brains,  wrapped in  their  meditation,  saw  the  Dust pushing  at  the  glass  shell  of  Antares with  triumphant  mockery.

The  Great  Brain  had  expected  no reply,  since  for  centuries  it  had  been considered  futile  to  combat  the  Dust ; and  so,  when  its  expectation,  though not  its  wish,  was  fulfilled,  it  relaxed and  dropped,  the  signal  that  the meeting  was  over.

But  the  motion  had  scarcely  been completed,  when  from  deep  within the  center  of  the  sea  there  came  a violent  heave ;  in  a  moment,  a  section collected  itself  and  rushed  together; like  a  waterspout  it  swished  upward and  went  streaming  toward  the  roof until  it  swayed  thin  and  tenuous  as  a column  of  smoke,  the  top  of  the  Brain peering  down  from  the  dimness  of the  upper  hall.

“I  have  found  an  infallible  plan! The  Red  Brain  has  conquered  the Cosmic  Dust!”

A  terrific  tenseness  leaped  upon the  Brains,  numbed  by  the  cry  that wavered  in  silence  down  the  Hall  of the  Mist  into  the  empty  and  dream536

WEIRD  TALES

less  tomb  of  the  farther  marble.  The Great  Brain,  hardly  relaxed,  rose again.  And  with  a  curious  whirling motion  the  assembled  horde  suddenly revolved.  Immediately,  the  Red Brain  hung  upward  from  the  middle of  a  sea  which  had  become  an  am¬ phitheater  in  arrangement,  all  Brains looking  toward  the  center.  A  sup¬ pressed  expectancy  and  hope  electri¬ fied  the  air.

The  Red  Brain  was  one  of  the  later creations  of  the  chemists,  and  had come  forth  during  the  experiments  to produce  more  perfect  Brains.  Pre¬ viously,  they  had  all  been  black ;  but, perhaps  because  of  impurities  in  the chemicals,  this  one  had  evolved  in  an extremely  dark,  dull-red  color.  It was  regarded  with  wonder  by  its companions,  and  more  so  when  they found  that  many  of  its  thoughts  could not  be  grasped  by  them.  What  it allowed  the  others  to  know  of  what passed  within  it  was  to  a  large  ex¬ tent  incomprehensible.  No  one  knew how  to  judge  the  Red  Brain,  but much  had  been  expected  from  it.

Thus,  when  the  Red  Brain  sent forth  its  announcement,  the  others formed  a  huge  circle  around,  their minds  passive  and  open  for  the  ex¬ planation.  Thus  they  lay,  silent, while  awaiting  the  discovery.  And thus  they  reclined,  completely  un¬ prepared  for  what  followed.

For,  as  the  Red  Brain  hung  in  the air,  it  began  a  slow  but  restless  sway¬ ing;  and  as  it  swayed,  its  thoughts poured  out  in  a  rhythmic  chant. High  above  them  it  towered,  a smooth,  slender  column,  whose  lofty end  was  moving  ever  faster  and faster  while  nervous  shudders  rip¬ pled  up  and  down  its  length.  And the  alien  chant  .  became  stronger, stronger,  until  it  changed  into  a  wild and  dithyrambic  paean  to  the  beauty of  the  past,  to  the  glory  of  the present,  to  the  splendor  of  the  future. And  the  lay  became  a  moaning  praise,

an  exaltation ;  a  strain  of  furious  joy ran  through  it,  a  repetition  of,  “The Red  Brain  has  conquered  the  Dust. Others  have  failed,  but  he  has  not. Play  the  national  anthem  in  honor  of the  Red  Brain,  for  he  has  triumphed. Place  him  at  your  head,  for  he  has conquered  the  Dust.  Exalt  him  who has  proved  himself  the  greatest  of  all. Worship  him  who  is  greater  than Antares,  greater  than  the  Cosmic Dust,  greater  than  the  Universe.”

Abruptly  it  stopped.  The  puzzled Brains  looked  up.  The  .Red  Brain had  ceased  its  nodding  motion  for  a moment,  and  had  closed  its  thoughts to  them.  But  along  its  entire  length it  began  a  gyratory  spinning,  until it  whirled  at  an  incredible  speed. Something  antagonistic  suddenly emanated  from  it.  And  before  the Brains  could  grasp  the  situation,  be¬ fore  they  could  protect  themselves  by closing  their  minds,  the  will-impulses of  the  Red  Brain,  laden  with  hatred and  death,  were  throbbing  about  them and  entering  their  open  minds.  Like a  whirlwind  spun  the  Red  Brain, hurtling  forth  its  hate.  Like  halfinflated  balloons  the  other  Brains  had lain  around  it ;  like  cooling  glass bubbles  they  tautened  for  a  second; and  like  pricked  balloons,  as  their thoughts  and  thus  their  lives  were annihilated,  since  Thought  was  Life, they  flattened,  instantaneously  dis¬ solving  into  pools  of  evanescent  slime. By  tens  and  by  hundreds  they  sank, destroyed  by  the  sweeping,  unchecked thoughts  of  the  Red  Brain  which filled  the  hall ;  by  groups,  by  sections, by  paths  around  the  whole  circle  fell the  doomed  Brains  in  that  single moment  of  carelessness,  while  pools  of thick  ink  collected,  flowed  together, crept  onward,  and  became  rivers  of pitch  rushing  down  the  marble  floor with  a  soft,  silken  swish.

The  hope  of  the  universe  had  lain with  the  Red  Brain.

And  the  Red  Brain  was  mad.

THE  Dennison  home  is  a  quiet, roomy  place,  neither  new  nor old.  It  has  wide,  kindly spaces;  the  walls  smile  at  you.

The  house  has  many  closets,  hut not  a  skeleton  in  any  of  them — and as  for  ghosts,  no  one  has  ever  died there.

There  is  no  luxury,  and  equally, no  mystery — not  at  all  the  place  to tempt  a  night-marauding  visitor, from  this  or  any  other  world;  and Mollie  Dennison,  its  gentle  mistress, finds  it  strange  that  her  husband should  he  so  insistent,  of  late,  about having  every  door  and  window  on the  first  floor  tightly  locked  every night.  Only  last  summer,  many  of them  were  commonly  left  open,  and even  when  he  forgot  to  hook  the

screens,  he  laughed  at  her  for  remon¬ strating.

What  caused  this  change  in  him, she  is  never  to  know;  so  John  Den¬ nison  has  vowed  to  himself,  to  his son  Robert,  and  to  his  friend  Dr. Hedges.

“A  woman  couldn’t  know  a  thing like  that!”  he  has  told  them.

At  breakfast,  on  that  day,  late  in the  previous  summer,  which  he  is never  to  forget,  he  had  asked  Mollie casually,  “Robert  up  yet?”

“Yes — or  he  was;  he’s  lying  on  the couch  in  the  library  and  he  wants  to see  you  before  you  go ;  he  said wouldn’t  you  please  come  in?”

“Nonsense !  Why  doesn’t  he  come to  the  table?”

“John,  dear,  the  boy’s  sick;  and


WEIRD  TALES

you’re  so  hard  with  him!  You wouldn’t  listen  yesterday - ”

“Dreams  again,  eh!”.

“Yes,  but  he’s  very  hoarse,  too. I’m  worried.”

Dennison  left  the  breakfast  table impatiently.

The  summer  was  passing;  and  the boy,  who  had  eome  home  from  col¬ lege  in  June  with  shadowed  eyes  and a  puzzled  frown  between  them, seemed  more  preoccupied,  more  list¬ less,  every  day.

He  was  thinner,  too;  not  in  any way  like  the  big,  rollicking  chap  who had  left  them  last  September.  He had  visited  a  friend  over  the  Christ¬ mas  holidays,  and  both  parents  had anxiously  noted  the  change  in  him, after  nine  months  of  absence.

“Keep  having  nightmares — guess I’m  bilious!”  was  the  only  explana¬ tion  they  had  been  able  to  win  from him;  it  had  not  seemed  a  sufficient one.  Dennison  resented  the  boy’s lack  of  interest  in  the  business  (an automobile  agency),  and  gave  him hard  work  to  do,  tersely  remarking that  he’d  sleep  better  for  it.  The tasks  were  well  but  wearily  per¬ formed,  and  nothing  gained  besides.

“Morning,  sir,”  he  said  as  Denni¬ son  entered.  He  swung  his  slippered feet  to  the  floor  and  sat  up  dizzily, supporting  himself  with  a  hand  at each  side  upon  the  couch.

He  was  “his  mother’s  boy”,  tall and  fair;  for  Dennison  was  shorter, darker,  more  muscular.  .

“If  you  won’t  help  me,  Dad,  I’ll have  to  get  somebody  else.”

“What’s  the  matter,  anyway?”

“I  tried  to  tell  you  yesterday. Listen,  Dad !  This  thing’s  killing  me ! Look  here!”  He  showed  a  swollen and  discolored  throat ;  his  eyes  were bloodshot,  and  he  was  hoarse,  as  his mother  had  said.

“Hurt  yourself?”

“It’s  that  thing  I  dream  about,  I tell  you — if  it  is  dreaming.  He — or

“You  do  it  yourself,  in  your  sleep — but  that ’s  bad  enough ;  need  more exercise.”

“I  exercise  until  I  can  hardly crawl  to  bed.  No  trouble  about  go¬ ing  to  sleep;  it’s  all  I  can  do — but afterward - ■”

“Well,  what  can  I  do  about  it?”

“Dad”  —  the'  boy’s  pale  face flushed — “you’ll  say  it’s  babyish,  be¬ cause  you  don’t  know — you  don’t know!  I — want  you  to  stay  with me  tonight!”

‘  ‘  Babyish  enough !  Ever  leave  the light  on?”

“Yes.  He  came  just  the  same !  I couldn’t  see  him,  but -

“Aha !  And  yet  you’re  still  afraid of  him?”  •

“It  was  worse  than  ever.  I  can’t move,  you  see,  or  fight,  or  even breathe;  but  I  get  wide  awake,  and then  he  goeg  away,  but  I  don’t  sleep any  more.”

“Just  a  regular  nightmare,  Bob.”

“Maybe.  But  oh,  God!  How  I’d like  to  have  one  night  of  peace — one night  when  Bull  Bayman - ”

“Bull  Bayman!  So  that’s  who  it is,  you  think?”

“I  don’t  know;  it  seems  like  him, somehow;  only  of  course  Bull  didn’t have — scales  all  over  him.”

“Scales!”  There  was  an  under¬ lying  note  of  panic  in  the  man’s exasperation.  Was  it  more  than dreams,  then?  Was  it  insanity?

“Honest,  Dad.  And  claws.”

His  father  observed  in  a  tolerably controlled  tone,  “Bull  Bayman  was the  quarterback  who  choked  you  be¬ cause  he  thought  you  gave  away  the signals  to  the  other  team  ?  ’  ’

“Did  he  choke  me?”  the  lad  re¬ turned  vaguely.

“Don’t  you  remember  it?  He knocked  you  down  first.  Kent  Tay¬ lor  told  me  about  it ;  said  they  threw water  on  you  to  bring  you  out  of  it.  ’  ’

“I  know  we  had  a  mix-up;  I didn’t  play  any  more,  of  course,  but in  the  very  next  scrimmage  Bull  got

A  PROBLEM  OF  THE  DARK

that  welt  on  the  head  that  sent  him — where  he  is  now.”

“And  you  think  he  comes  hack every  night  to  choke  you  ?  ’  ’

“I’d  forgotten  he  choked  me,” mused  the  hoy.

“But  he  comes  back  in  a  dream, Rob!  Don’t  you  see  now  that  it’s all  a  dream?”

“And  don’t  you  see  that  I’ll  lose my  mind  if  this  thing  doesn’t  let up?  And  will  you  stay  with  me  to¬ night,  anyway  until  midnight,  or — say — 1  o’clock?”

John  Dennison  rose  sharply.

“I  will — to  keep  you  from  calling on  somebody  else.  Nice  thing  to  get around — ghosts !  ’  ’

“Dad!  You  promise?”

“I  said  I  would,  didn’t  I?”

“  Oh,  God !  ”  sobbed  the  boy  hoarse¬ ly,  as  a  flood  of  relief  rolled  over his  parched  nerves.  “Oh,  God!”

He  flung  himself  face  down  on  the leather  couch,  and  his  slender  body shook  in  hysteria.  His  father  looked down  at  him  sadly.

“I  didn’t  know  it  was  so  bad, Rob  by,”  he  gruffly  admitted.

“Don’t  tell  him,  but  I’m  going  to see  Hedges  about  him,”  he  told  his wife  in  the  front  hall,  as  he  was leaving  the  house.  “It’s  nerves.  Let him  sleep  it  off,  if  he  can.”

She  had  tried  to  believe,  as  John did,  that  the  dreams  would  “wear off”,  but  she  was  glad  and  relieved to  know  that  their  good  friend  Dr. Hedges,  whose  studies  of  late  had taken  a  psychopathic  turn,  was  to be  asked  to  help  her  boy.

“Tt  isn’t  as  if  Rob  ever  drank  a drop,  or  smoked  too  much,” John  told  this  friend,  at  the  latter’s office,  “and  he  was  never  afraid  of the  fellow ;  had  forgotten,  even,  that he  choked  him!”

“Bull  hadn’t  forgotten,  though,” muttered  Hedges.

“Bull’s  dead.”

“His  body  is.  But  what  was  he

living  for,  just  as  he  got  that  blow on  the  head  that  finished  him?  To be  revenged  on  Rob,  because  he thought  he  had  queered  the  game. Now,  if  the  mass  of  molecules,  or atoms,  or  even  electrons,  that  must be  released  at  death  (for  something is  released,  John),  could  retain  an impression,  a  purpose — can’t  you find  it  possible  to  suppose  that  it could  animate  another  body — even an  elemental  one?”

“But — even  supposing  that,  Bob had  the  light  on  one  night,  and — he  says  he  felt  him,  but  couldn’t  see him !  ’  ’

“It  is  by  no  means  probable  that all  the  elemental  forms  are  visible to  us.  You’ve  seen  those  beautiful little  sea-creatures,  John,  that  are exactly  like  glass,  yet  have  life  and motion ;  and  even  that  familiar thing,  the  eel,  is  transparent  at  one stage.  You  could  imagine  a  being so  perfectly  transparent  as  to  be  in¬ visible,  yet  alive.  Now,  supposing that  the  freed  human  particles  enter into  and  animate  an  elemental, transparent  body - ”

“Where  would  they  find  such  a thing?  Why  don’t  we  ever  hear  of them?”

“Perhaps,  being  invisible,  it  is easy  for  them  to  keep  out  of  our way.  There  are  hundreds  of  relig¬ ious  beliefs — but  we  won’t  go  into that.  John,  something  living  made those  marks  on  that  boy ’s  neck.  It ’s up  to  us  to  find  out  what  it  is.”

“If — if  there  is  anything,  why hasn’t  it — or  he — killed  him?”

“That’s  the  Bull  Bayman  part  of it!  He  repeats  the  choking  inci¬ dent  ;  possibly  he  has  memory  with¬ out  intelligence.

“I  think,  John,”  he  added  after a  pause,  “that  I’ll  show  you  some¬ thing.”

He  unlocked  a  small  safe,  and paused  again  before  he  beckoned Dennison  to  his  side.  He  had  taken


WEIRD  TALES

from  the  safe  an  envelope,  the  seal of  which  he  now  broke.

“These  are  photographs  —  of ‘dreams’,’'  he  said  in  a  low  tone;  “I made  them  myself.”  He  exposed them  slowly,  placing  one  behind  an¬ other.

John  staggered  to  a  seat,  nauseat¬ ed,  horror-stricken.

“I  don’t. believe  it  1”  he  cried  out suddenly!

“You  wouldn’t.  But,  John,  if  you want  me  to  help  Rob,  you  will  have to  do  as  I  say.  Your  belief  has  noth¬ ing  whatever  to  do  with  the  ease, you  see.  Now,  first,  I  want  the  house quiet  by  11 ;  you  ’re  to  sleep  with Rob;  Mollic’s  to  sneak  me  into  a roam  near  him,  without  his  knowing I’m  there;  then  I  want  her  to  go  and stay  with  her  sister;  I’d  rather  not have  her  in  the  house  at  all.  ’  ’

“No!”  shuddered  John,  with  an involuntary  glance  at  the  safe — a sarcophagus  of  nightmares.

“No  lights,  remember,  and  the doors  unlocked.  Now,  I’ll  stop  at your  office  and  arrange  about  the films.  Yes,  as  you  say,  if  there’s anything  to  make  a  film  of.  A  cor¬ ner  of  your  basement  will  do  for that;  and  I’ll  give  you  all  the  final instructions.  Good-bye,  John.”

The  daily  routine  calmed  Denni¬ son,  though  he  felt  rather  old, rather  kicking  in  the  cocksureness of  his  own  judgment.  Had  it  made him  cruel  to  the  boy?

“You  don't  know — you  don't know!”  Robert  had  said.

“You  wouldn’t,”  Frank  Hedges had  told  him,  when  he  had  given his  friend  the  lie.  Well,  tonight — if  he  must -

At  11  o’clock,  all  had  been  jfrranged  according  to  Dr.  Hedges’ instructions,  and  he  himself  waited in  the  room  across  the  hall.  Robert, who  had  worked  that  day  with  some¬

thing  like  his  old  hoyish  enthusiasm, now  lay  sound  asleep  beside  his father.  The  lights  were  out,  but there  was  a  switch  near  Dennison’s left  hand.

The  streets  grew  more  quiet ;  few¬ er  vehicles  passed.

Midnight  tolled.

An  even  deeper  quiet  settled  upon the  house.

The  quarter  struck.  Robert  was still  breathing  deeply,  softly,  like  a child.  His  father  tried  to  believe  that he  was  not  listening  for  any  ether sound.

Two  strokes  announced  the  halfhour.  His  attention  was  gradually relaxing.  There  would  be  nothing tonight.  Rob  had  felt  so  safe,  to have  him  near;  just  as  he  himself had  felt,  to  have  Frank  near.

Nonsense!  He  had  always  felt safe  enough.

Those  films — someone  had  fooled Frank,  that  was  all.

And  yet — he  remembered  the doctor’s  habit  of  accuracy;  his  ex¬ treme  nicety  of  perception.  Tomor¬ row  he  would  ask  him — but  now  he became  aware  that  Robert  was  grad¬ ually  drawing  away  from  him.  He still  lay  relaxed,  not  a  muscle  tense, and  breathing  easily,  yet  he  was moving,  or  being  moved,  slowly away.  Then,  with  a  deep  sigh,  he rolled  over  on  his  back.

Nothing,  after  all,  but  an  involun¬ tary  change  of  position.

But  his  breathing  was  getting shorter,  thicker— he  began  to  stran¬ gle,  to  moan — Ms  whole  body  la¬ bored.

“Nightmare!”  thought  Dennison, and  had  almost  reached  out  his  hand to  rouse  the  boy,  when  he  remem¬ bered  Hedges’  command,  “If  he chokes  I  shall  hear  him.  Don’t move!  Don’t  call!”

But  suppose  Rrank  had  fallen asleep?

A  PROBLEM  OF  THE  DARK


Ft  was  growing  more  terrible every  second!

Dennison’s  head  and  hands  were wet  with  the  effort  of  holding  still, when  the  sounds  ceased — Robert  lay as  if  dead.

His  father  could  bear  no  more ;  he threw  out  his  hands — they  encoun¬ tered  the  thick,  rough,  scaly  neck of  something  bending  over  the  bed. This  he  clutched  desperately,  shout¬ ing,  “Frank!  Help!  Help!"  For horrible  claws  snatched  at  his  face, yet  he  dared  not  loose  his  hold.

“I’m — right  here!”  grated  the doctor’s  voice,  through  set  teeth,  and Dennison  knew  that  he,  too,  was struggling  with  the  intruder;  that they  had  attacked  it  simultaneously.

Was  it  to  elude  them  both  after all?  It  was  a  fearful  antagonist,  be¬ cause  of  its  strength,  its  sinuous, twisting  motions,  the  repeated  at¬ tacks  on  their  hands  and  faces  from its  hideous  claws — it  was  like  some struggle  of  brute  forces  in  the  pri¬ mordial  darkness.

“There!”  panted  the  doctor  at last,  ‘  ‘  I ’ve — got  him — handcuffed ! The  light,  John!

“Lie  still,  Bull  Bayman,  or  I’ll break  your  elbows!”  he  thundered; and  then  John  turned  the  switch.

Staring  half-dazed  in  the  sudden light,  he  beheld  his  friend  with  one knee  apparently  poised  in  the  air above  the  bed;  his  face  swollen  and set  with  the  effort  of  holding  some¬ thing  down ;  something  that  neither of  them  could  see !

Rob’s  words  raced  through  his mind,  even  while  he  again  hurled himself  forward  to  the  doctor’s  as¬ sistance:  “He  came  just  the  same — I  couldn’t  see  him - ”

And  he  had  jeered!

“Hold  his  shoulders  down,  while I  hold  his  legs,”  directed  Dr. Hedges.

‘  ‘  Listen,  you !  Are  you  Bull  Bayman?”

There  was  not  an  instant’s  cessa¬ tion  in  the  thing’s  efforts  to  free  it¬ self.

“Listen,  Bull  Bayman!  You’re wrong  about  Robert  Dennison — -he never  gave  the  other  team  your  sig¬ nals  !  ’  ’

There  was  no  sign  of  understand¬ ing;  only  the  continued  struggle. They  could  feel  and  hear  the  harsh rattle  of  its  breath,  the  heavily  beat¬ ing  heart.  As  they  held  him,  or  it, firmly,  but  without  too  great  a  pres¬ sure,  they  felt  the  heart-beat  becom¬ ing  slower,  the  breath  fluttering strangely.

The  paroxysms  grew  weaker,  then ceased.  The  shape  lay  inert.

“I  don’t  believe  he  understands you,”  murmured  Dennison.

“Yet  he  may  be  able  to  both  hear and  see  us!  As  for  his  understand¬ ing — he  is  trying  to  leave  this  hulk even  now !  ...  In  other  words,  he ’s dying!

“I  gave  him  a  shot  of  cyanide  so¬ lution  before  you  ever  called,”  he added,  “as  soon  as  I  felt  those damned  scales.  I  knew  then  he wasn’t  human.”

“Cyanide!”

“Enough  to  kill  a  horse ;  or  an  al¬ ligator.  Well — he’s  dead.”

“Frank,  for  God’s  sake,  look  after Rob,  won’t  you?”

“Rob’s  all  right;  didn’t  even wake  up,  though  we  had  this  fellow right  across  his  knees  all  the  time. Let  him  sleep  it  off.”

Only  a  few  hours  ago  Dennison had  used  those  words  himself  ;N  it seemed  to  him  that  he  had  forged through  strange  worlds  since  then. Dr.  Hedges’  nonchalance  as  he rolled  “the  fellow”  to  the  floor  and reached  to  the  table  for  his  first-aid kit  roused  a  sort  of  dull  resentment in  Dennison’s  mind.

“We’ll  bind  up  our  wounds,” said  Dr.  Hedges,  “and  then — say,


WEIRD  TALES

John,  this  long  scratch  came  mighty near  the  jugular !  ’  ’

“It  felt  like  it,”  muttered  John.

“I’ve  got  one  that  just  missed  my left  eye.  We’ll  have  a  beautiful  photo of  our  unseen  friend  in  a  few  days, though.”

“Good  heavens,  Frank!”  explod¬ ed  Dennison,  “what  do  you  want  of a  photo  ?  ’  ’

“Want  to  see  how  it  looks,  of course !  ’  ’

“Well,  I  don’t!  Feeling  it  was bad  enough;  let’s  chop  it  up  and burn  it  in  the  furnace — it’s  a  cool night.”

“See  here,  John!  These  things belong  to  the  hidden  side  of  nature — but  they  exist,  as  I’ve  told  you, and  they’re  very  dangerous!”

“Well,  you’ve  killed  it.”

“Yes,  and  I’m  going  to  study  it. There  must  be  some  clue  to  its  iden¬

tity.  They’re  rare,  I  grant  you,  but suppose  they  should  increase  on  the earth  ?  ’  ’

“Horrible !”

“Is  the  paint  ready  to  smear  on? And  the  stuff  for  the  flashlight?”

“  It ’s  all  in  the  back  basement.  ’  ’ “Let’s  snake  him  down,  then.”

The  doctor’s  safe  holds  another dream-photo  now;  Dennison  re¬ fuses  to  look  at  it,  and  Robert  does not  know  of  its  existence,  though the  rest  of  the  story  has  been  told him  in  detail.  He  was  informed  that the  body  was  burned  in  the  furnace, which  was  true.  The  photo  shows  a man’s  body,  with  the  legs  and  scales of  some  great  reptile  or  lizard,  and with  the  face  protected  by  ridges  of bone.  It  is  a  truly  horrific  object, yet  Dr.  Hedges  declares  that  it shows  a  decided  resemblance  to  Bull Bayman.

Here  Are  the  Final  Chapters  of

The  Bride  of  Osiris

By  OTIS  ADELBERT  KLINE

The  Story  So  Far

Doris  lee  is  kidnap.ed  and  carried  to  the  under¬ ground  city  of  Karneter,  under  Chicago,  there to  become  the  bride  of  Mezzar  Hashin,  who,  as Osiris,  rules  Karneter  in  true  Egyptian  fashion. Alan  Buell  and  Dan  Rafferty,  trying  to  rescue Doris,  are  captured  and  led  before  Osiris  for  trial. Rafferty  is  assigned  a  post  as  electrician,  and  con¬ spires  with  Alcibar,  former  High  Priest  but  now a  slave  in  the  dungieons  of  Karneter,  to  slay  Mez¬ zar  Hashin  and  the  High  Priest  Sethral.  and  liber¬ ate  Doris  and  Buell.  Rafferty,  trying  to  protect Delra,  the  vestal  virgin  (nee  Mary  Mooney),  from one  of  the  temple  guards,  is  captured  by  Sethral’s men  and  chained  in  the  deepest  dungeon  in Karneter.  Buell  is  sentenced  to  impersonate  the Osiris  N  at  the  Festival  of  Re.  when  he  will  be put  to  death.  Doris  sees  him  enter  the  inner temple :  and  as  a  huge  bird  with  body,  wings  and daws  like  those  of  an  owl  and  head  of  a  man. with  the  features  of  Alan  Buell,  emerges  from  the inner  temple  and  disappears,  Thansor,  the  priest¬ ess,  tells  her:  “That  was  the  Bo — the  soul  of  the Osiris  N.”

This  story  began  in  WEIRD  TALES  f<

CHAPTER  15 BEHIND  THE  SCENES

IN  THE  inky  solitude  of  the  deep¬ est  dungeon,  Dan  Rafferty,  his feet  braced  against  the  slimy wall,  was  trying,  as  he  had  tried times  without  end,  to  break  the  heavy chain  that  held  him.  As  day  and night  were  alike  to  him  and  sleep came  only  with  utter  exhaustion,  he had  no  idea  how  long  he  had  been confined  there.  A  few  days,  a  week perhaps,  but  it  seemed  an  age.  True, an  attendant  had  brought  him  food

THE  BRIDE  OF  OSIRIS


from  time  to  time,  but  whether  one, two  or  three  meals  a  day,  he  had  no means  of  lmowing,  for  he  was  always hungry.

As  he  struggled  grimly  at  his  hope¬ less  task  the  sound  of  a  human  voice, the  first  he  had  heard  since  his  in¬ carceration,  came  eerily  to  him  from the  darkness  at  his  back.  Someone was  softly  calling  his  name.  Startled, he  ceased  his  efforts  and  dropped, catlike,  to  his  feet,  turning  as  he dropped.

Again  the  unseen  presence  ad¬ dressed  him.

‘  ‘  Is  that  you,  Dan  Rafferty  ?  ’  ’

“Sure,  it’s  nobody  else.  And  who the  divvil  may  you  be?”

“Hush!  Not  so  loud!”  He  heard the  unseen  owner  of  the  voice  move stealthily  closer.  “I  am  Alcibar,  the prisoner  you  befriended  three  days ago.  Ever  since  I  slipped  my  metal collar,  thanks  to  your  sharp  file,  I have  been  searching  for  you.  Only today  did  I  learn  that  you  were  con¬ fined  here,  so  I  have  hastened  to  keep my  promise.”

“Did  yez  bring  the  file?”

“I  did.  Here,  let  me  cut  your collar  for  you.  I  believe  that  practise has  made  me  quite  adept.  ’  ’

Crouching  there  in  the  darkness, Dan  waited  stoically  while  the  hard tool,  stroke  by  stroke,  cut  into  the metal  that  held  him,  nor  did  he  more than  wince  on  those  occasions  when it  slipped  and  mingled  his  blood  with the  bits  of  metal  that  were  falling  on his  neck.

After  fully  an  hour  of  patient  labor on  the  part  of  Alcibar  and  heroic  en¬ durance  on  the  part  of  Rafferty,  the stubborn  metal  yielded  and  Dan stood  up..  He  shook  himself  like  a beast  of  burden  just  freed  from  the yoke.

“Begorry,  it  feels  good  to  have that  damned  thing  off,”  he  said, “even  though  most  of  me  skin  went with  it.  Where  do  we  go  from  here  ?  ’  ’

“We  must  make  haste,”  replied

Alcibar,  “but  we  must  also  be  cau¬ tious.  First,  remove  your  clothing. I  have  brought  apparel  more  suit¬ able  than  that  you  are  wearing,  for the  work  that  lies  before  us.”

Quickly  slipping  out  of  his  slave garments,  the  Irishman  donned  the new  clothing  which  Alcibar  provided.

“They  are  the  robes  of  a  priest  of Re,”  he  explained.  “I  am  similarly attired  and  have  gone  about  the  tem¬ ple  all  day  undetected,  so  they  should prove  an  excellent  disguise  for  you.”

“Righto,”  said  Dan.  “Let’s  go. Do  yez  know  where  we  can  find  me friend  Buell?”

“  If  I  mistake  not,  he  is  now  on  his way  to  the  temple,  where  he  will shortly  re-enact  the  story  of  the death  of  Osiris.  ’  ’

“Yez  mane  he’s  going  to  be  kilt?”

“Precisely.  We  go  now  to  save him.  Re  grant  that  we  will  be  in time !  Here,  give  me  your  hand.  ’  ’

Guided  by  Alcibar,  Dan  hurried through  numerous  passageways  and corridors.  The  ex-priest,  it  seemed, had  an  almost  uncanny  knowledge  of every  twist  and  turn  and  a  marvel¬ ous  sense  of  direction.  Presently they  mounted  a  dark  stairway,  then another,  faintly  lighted,  and  still  an¬ other  in  which  they  could  see  quite plainly.

“Pull  your  cowl  over  your  head,” admonished  Alcibar.  “We  will  have to  pass  many  guards  now,  and  the way  is  better  lighted  farther  on.’t

They  encountered  two  guards  at the  foot  of  the  next  stairway  and passed  them  unchallenged.  More guards  and  several  priests  were  met and  passed  on  the  next  level  with  the same  result.

At  the  second  basement  level,  the fifth  above  the  dungeon  from  which they  had  come,  Rafferty’s  companion led  him  away  from  a  stairway  and through  a  gigantic  storeroom  piled with  boxes,  bales  and  casks.

“Our  progress  from  now  on,”  he said,  “will  be  through  a  secret  way


WEIRD  TALES

known  only  to  Mezzar  Hashin,  Sethral  and  myself.  It  is  intended  solely for  the  use  of  the  Osiris  and  the  High Priest  of  Re.  ’  ’

Walking  behind  a  pile  of  boxes  he stepped  before  a  blank  wall,  appa¬ rently  of  solid  masonry,  reached  up¬ ward  to  a  chink  above  his  head,  in¬ serted  his  finger  and  pushed.  To the  astonishment  of  Rafferty,  a  cun¬ ningly  concealed  door,  made  of  metal and  faced  with  stone  that  exactly matched  the  stone  around  it,  •  swung open.  Behind  it  was  a  spiral,  metal stairway.

The  two  men  entered  the  aperture. Then  Alcibar  pulled  the  door  shut after  him  and  led  the  way  up  the steps.

After  climbing  for  some  distance they  arrived  at  a  square  landing, from  which  two  narrow  passageways branched  in  opposite  directions.  Hear¬ ing  footsteps  above  him,  Dan  judged that  they  were  just  beneath  one  of the  floors  of  the  temple.  They  took the  passageway  which  led  to  the  right and,  following  it  for  some  distance, arrived  at  the  foot  of  a  short,  straight stairway.

Turning,  the  ex-priest  placed  his hand  on  Dan’s  arm.

“From  now  on,”  he  said,  “we must  preserve  absolute  quiet.  The slightest  sound  may  mean  sudden death  for  both  of  us.”

He  mounted  the  steps  with  catlike tread  and  Dan  followed,  scarcely permitting  himself  to  breathe.  At the  top,  Alcibar  cautiously  raised  a trap-door  and  peered  through  the orifice.  Then  he  pushed  it  up  silently and  stepped  to  the  floor  above, beckoning  Rafferty  to  follow.  They were  in  a  narrow,  dimly  lighted  space between  a  paneled  wall  and  a  thick, yellow  curtain.

Alcibar  lowered  the  trap-door  once more,  tiptoed  to  the  end  of  the  cur¬ tain,  and  peered  around  it.

“All  is  well  so  far,”  he  whispered.

He  next  applied  his  single  eye  to  a tiny  hole  in  the  paneled  wall. “Come,”  he  said.  “I  will  show  you one  of  your  friends.”

Dan  looked  through  the  hole.  A semicircle  of  yellow-robed  priests knelt  before  the  altar,  which  was slightly  to  the  left  of  his  line  of vision,  while  Sethral  walked  back  and forth  before  it,  muttering  incanta¬ tions  and  throwing  incense  in  the flames.  At  his  right  he  saw  the  huge image  of  Isis,  the  lighting  switches of  which  he  had  twice  repaired.  A priest  of  Re  was  operating  them.  In the  hall  beyond  he  saw  a  vast  crowd of  people,  and  quite  near  him  a beautiful  girl  in  a  blue-canopied  lit¬ ter,  surrounded  by  blue-garbed  vir¬ gins,  priestesses  and  giant  Amazonian guards.

“Don’t  see  anybody  I  know,”  he said.

‘  ‘  The  girl  beneath  the  blue  canopy. Do  you  not  know  her?  She  is  the fiancee  of  your  friend,  Alan  Buell.”

“Begorry,  is  that  Doris  Lee?  Sure and  the  bye  picked  himself  a  peach! If  I’d  nivver  seen  Mary  Mooney  I’d call  her  the  prettiest  girl  I  ivver clapped  eyes  on.”

As  Dan  turned  away  from  the opening  a  hollow,  rhythmic  booming sounded  above  their  heads.

“Your  friend  has  arrived  at  the temple  gates,”  said  Alcibar.  “The great  drum  beats  the  welcome  of  Re to  the  Osiris  N.”

While  Alcibar  talked  he  lifted  the lid  of  a  huge,  gilded  chest  that  stood in  one  comer,  searched  among  its  con¬ tents  for  a  moment,  and  then  drew forth  a  gaudy  yellow  robe  similar  to that  worn  by  the  High  Priest.  Re¬ moving  his  plain  robe,  he  donned  it. From  another  section  of  the  chest  he took  two  weapons  that  made  Dan Rafferty  dance  with  delight.  They were  short  clubs,  each  weighted  at one  end  with  a  ball  of  iron  the  size of  a  lemon  and  ringed  with  a  leather wrist-loop  at  the  other  end.

THE  BRIDE  OF  OSIRIS


“Faith,  that’s  a  pretty  pair  of ehillalahs,  ”  said  Dan.

Alcibar  flung  his  old  robe  into  the chest  and  closed  the  lid.  Then  he handed  one  of  the  clubs  to  Dan.

The  beating  of  the  great  drum  was suddenly  stilled,  and  the  plaintive strains  of  Oriental  music  burst  forth from  somewhere  behind  them.

“The  dance  begins,”  said  Alcibar. “If  you  will  look  out  the  spy-hole you  may  be  able  to  see  Delra.”

Dan  looked.

‘  ‘  The  dirty  divvils !  ”  he  exclaimed. “Oh,  the  dirty,  cowardly  divvils! Would  yez  look  at  that  poor  little white  back  all  covered  with  bloody welts.  If  I  ivver  get  me  two  hands on  that  High  Priest  I’ll - ”

“Stop!”  The  single  eye  of  the former  High  Priest  regarded  him sternly.  “Remember,  when  the  time comes,  the  life  of  Sethral  belongs  to me.  It  is  I  who  have  suffered  most at  his  hands.  ’  ’

“In  that  case,”  replied  Dan, “here’s  wishin’  yez  luck,  and  I  hope yez  break  ivvery  bone  in  his  body.  ’  ’

“If  things  work  out  as  planned  I can  at  least  guarantee  that  he  will never  see  the  light  of  another  day. Better  let  me  at  the  spy-hole  now.  It will  soon  be  time  for  our  part  in  the ceremony.”

Chafing  with  impatience,  Dan leaned  against  the  paneled  wall  while his  companion  kept  watch.  Presently the  music  changed.

‘  ‘  Is  Mary — I  mane  Delra,  out  there yet?”

“No,  she  has  gone  with  the  rest  of the  dancers,  but  have  no  fear.  I  will know  where  to  find  her  when  the  time comes.  ’  ’

Rafferty  fidgeted  uneasily  as  he stood  listening  to  the  sounds  from without.  This  waiting  jarred  on  his nerves.  Here  he  was,  a  fighting,  twofisted  Irishman  with  a  perfectly  good club  in  his  hands,  and  only  a  few feet  from  him  were  a  score  of  polls he  would  dearly  love  to  crack.  He

took  a  turn  up  and  down  the  narrow space,  hefting  the  weapon,  testing  its balance,  and  swinging,  now  and  then, at  an  imaginary  enemy.  Tiring  of this  amusement  at  length,  he  stopped and  peered  around  the  heavy  yellow curtain.  Beyond  it  he  saw  a  small, empty  room,  across  the  opposite  side of  which  was  stretched  another  simi¬ lar  curtain.  A  door  in  the  wall  at  his right  was  closed.

Presently  an  odd,  clattering  noise came  from  the  direction  of  the  altar. Alcibar  bounded  noiselessly  past  him and  crouched  beside  the  door,  his club  gripped  in  his  right  hand.

“Get  behind  the  curtain,”  he  said, “and  make  not  the  slightest  sound  or movement  until  I  call  to  you.  The time  for  action  has  come.”

CHAPTER  16 THE  BRIDE  OF  OSIRIS

When  Doris  Lee  saw  the  unearth¬ ly  thing  that  fluttered  upward from  the  room  which  Buell  had entered,  she  did  not,  of  course,  give credence  to  the  statement  of  the  fat priestess  that  it  was  the  soul  of  Alan Buell.  She  believed  that  the  vaunted magic  of  the  Egyptian  priests  was legerdemain,  pure  and  simple,  even though  they  sometimes  appeared  to work  miracles.  What  she  really feared  was  that  the  harpylike  crea¬ ture  symbolized  the  flight  of  his  soul — in  short,  that  he  had  really  been slain.  Her  hand  stole  to  the  keen dagger  beneath  her  girdle  and  rested there  uncertainly  for  a  moment.  No. She  would  wait.  She  must  make  sure that  all  hope  was  lost  before  plunging alone  into  the  great,  dark  beyond.

With  fear-filled  eyes  she  watched the  preparations  for  the  next  part  of the  ceremony.  A  group  of  soldiers in  suits  and  helmets  of  crocodile leather  rushed  in  through  a  side  door in  disorderly  array,  shouting  hoarsely and  waving  their  simitars  aloft.  Her instructress  had  taught  her  to  know


WEIRD  TALES

the  various  masks,  uniforms  and  in¬ signia,  and  she  recognized  them  as followers  of  Set,  the  crocodile  god, mortal  enemy  of  Osiris.  Ten  of  their number  carried  a  crucible  of  molten lead  with  charcoal  blazing  beneath  it. Six  more  bore  a  huge  gilded  chest  of strange  design.  On  each  side  were four  planes,  slanting  upward  toward the  front.  A  small  propeller  and rudder  were  attached  to  the  rear.

The  crucible  was  placed  before  the altar.  The  chest  was  laid  directly  in front  of  it.  Still  shouting  and  bran¬ dishing  their  weapons,  the  leatherclad  soldiers  danced  about  it.

A  flash  of  yellow  at  the  right  of  the altar  caught  her  eye.  It  was  the High  Priest,  still  wearing  the  croco¬ dile  mask  and  gnashing  the  teeth  as he  moved  the  hideous  muzzle  from side  to  side.  Behind  him  he  dragged a  limp,  white-clad  form.

At  sight  of  the  priest  the  soldiers redoubled  their  cries  and  several  of their  number  rushed  up  the  steps  to meet  him.  They  picked  up  the  whiteclad  body  and  carried  it  toward  the chest  while  two  of  their  comrades  re¬ moved  the  massive  lid.

Was  it  the  body  of  Buell?  The  fea¬ tures  were  still  covered  with  the  black mask,  but  she  strove  for  a  view  of  the disk  that  fronted  the  head-piece.  As four  men  raised  the  body,  prepara¬ tory  to  placing  it  in  the  chest,  the head  fell  back  and  she  saw  a  black “N”  standing  out  boldly  on  the dish.  The  dancing  figures  swam  mist¬ ily  before  her  eyes.  She  tried  to pluck  the  dagger  from  her  girdle,  but, weakened  and  half  fainting  as  she was,  she  was  scarcely  able  to  move her  hand.  She  must  wait — wait  until strength  returned.

When  her  vision  cleared  once  more the  followers  of  Set  were  fastening the  lid  and  sealing  it  with  the  molten lead.  This  task  completed,  they swung  the  chest  to  their  shoulders and,  led  by  the  High  Priest,  carried it  out  of  the  room,  still  shouting  and

brandishing  their  weapons.  A  group of  temple  slaves  removed  the  sizzling crucible.

Thansor,  her  fat  instructress,  looked up  with  a  gloating  expression  on  her moonlike  face.

“The  chest  will  now  be  shot  into the  lake,”  she  said,  “symbolizing  the hurling  of  the  chest  containing  the body  of  Osiris  into  the  Nile  after  Set and  his  followers  had  betrayed  him.  ’  ’

Too  numb  with  horror  to  reply, Doris  leaned  back  in  her  palanquin with  half -closed  eyes  and  prayed  for strength.

When  the  last  leather-clad  figure had  disappeared  through  the  door¬ way,  the  followers  of  Osiris  set  up  an unearthly  wailing  that  was  joined  in by  her  own  women.  The  moon-faced priestess  again  addressed  Doris.

“  Weep,  ”  she  said.  “  Weep  for  the departed  Osiris  N.  It  is  in  the  ritual that  Isis  should  so  weep.  ’  ’

Doris  looked  down  at  her  dully.

“I  can  not,”  she  replied,  and turned  her  head  away.

The  cries  of  the  mourners  were interrupted  by  a  shout  from  behind her  palanquin.  Then,  hurtling  past her  she  saw  the  hawk-masked  Horus. At  his  heels  a  horde  of  men  in  jackets that  bristled  with  hawk  feathers  fol¬ lowed,  shouting:  “Where  is  Set? Where  is  the  cowardly  assassin  of  our lord,  Osiris?”

“Who  seeks  Set?”  The  High Priest,  still  wearing  the  crocodile mask,  appeared  in  the  doorway  and advanced  threateningly,  followed  by the  leather-clad  soldiers.

“Horus,  son  of  Osiris.  Horns,  the avenger,  seeks  the  slayer  of  his father.”

There  followed  a  realistic  sham battle  between  the  followers  of  Set and  those  of  Horus.  Presently  the leather-clad  men  were  put  to  flight and  the  High  Priest  was  brought, manacled,  before  the  palanquin  of Isis.

It  was  here  that  Doris’  part  in  the

THE  BRIDE  OP  OSIRIS


ritual  commenced,  but  she  sat,  gaz¬ ing  dully  at  the  prisoner  until  the fat  priestess  prompted  her.  Then she  repeated  the  lines  automatically, like  one  in  a  dream.

“Unlock  the  fetters,”  whispered the  priestess,  handing  her  a  key.

Like  a  person  in  a  trance,  she  rose, stepped  down  from  the  palanquin, and  released  the  High  Priest.  Things took  the  semblance  of  a  vivid,  terri¬ fying  dream.  She  saw  Horns,  shout¬ ing — gnashing  his  great  hawk  bill as  if  enraged  by  her  aetion.  Then  he rushed  up  to  her,  tore  the  diadem from  her  head,  and  hurled  it  to  the floor.

From  behind  her  now  came  Thoth of  the  ibis  mask.  In  his  hands  he carried  a  mask  shaped  like  a  eow’s head — the  mask  of  the  eow  goddess, Athor.  Doris  ’  knees  were  trembling weakly  as  he  slipped  the  thing  over her  head.

Through  the  slits  in  the  stuffy  mask she  saw  the  High  Priest  run  up  the steps  to  the  right  of  the  altar  and  dis¬ appear..  The  thunderous  voice  of the  great  temple  drum  resounded through  the  place,  and  again  the lights  flashed  on  the  giant  image  of Osiris.  A  deafening  shout  went  up from  the  multitude.

“Welcome,  0  son  of  Re!  Thrice welcome,  mighty  Osiris,  Lord  of Karneter!”

All  about  her,  people  were  pros¬ trating  themselves,  their  faces  toward the  altar.  Then  she  saw  a  figure, elad  in  the  white  garments  of  Osiris, descending  the  steps.  Instead  of  a black  mask  and  diadem,  the  shoulders were  crowned  with  the  homed  mask of  the  bull,  Apis.

The  figure  advanced  toward  her, reached  for  a  hand  and  clasped  hers. Came  a  shout  from  the  kneeling multitude.

“Hail  to  Isis,  Bride  of  Osiris  and co-ruler  of  Kameter?”

At  the  shock  of  these  words  she awakened  as  from  a  dream.  Strength

came  to  her — the  strength  of  despera¬ tion.  Wrenching  her  hand  free,  she tore  the  keen  dagger  from  her  girdle and  plunged  it  into  her  bosom.

CHAPTER  17

IN  THE  MOST  HOLY  PLACE

Although  Buell  appeared  passive to  the  onlookers  as  he  went through  his  part  of  the  ritual,  observ¬ ing  every  detail  with  the  utmost nicety,  his  nerves  were  taut  as  bow¬ strings,  his  every  faculty  alert.  At some  point  in  the  ceremonies  lurked death,  waiting  to  leap  out  at  him — carry  him  into  the  black  void  of eternity.  For  Doris’  sake  as  well  as for  his  own,  he  must  be  ready  to avoid  the  hand  of  the  grim  reaper until  he  had  accomplished  his  pur¬ pose — the  death  of  Mezzar  Hashin.

As  he  stood  before  the  altar,  mir¬ roring  the  motions  of  Hashin  in  ac¬ cordance  with  the  teachings  of  Odd, he  tried  to  devise  a  way  to  end  the life  of  his  enemy.  He  thought  of  the crook,  but  no.  It  was  too  light.  It might  stun  yet  not  kill.  He  would leap  forward  and  throttle  him.  But again,  no.  It  took  time  to  throttle a  man,  and  the  guards  would  be  upon him  in  an  instant.

They  mounted  the  steps  at  the right  of  the  altar  and  entered  a  room across  two  ends  of  which  were stretched  heavy  yellow  curtains.  The High  Priest,  still  wearing  the  croco¬ dile  mask,  awaited  them.  This  was better.  Here  there  would  be  but  two men  to  fight.  Outside  there  were thousands.  The  High  Priest  spoke.

“The  Osiris  and  the  Osiris  N  will kneel  with  their  hacks  to  the  blazing disk  that  they  may  receive  the  8a,  the divine  blessing  of  Re.”

Both  men  knelt  with  their  hacks to  the  priest.  As  he  bent  forward, Buell  twisted  his  black  mask  slight¬ ly  to  the  right,  that  he  might  watch the  movements  of  the  priest,  for  he had  seen  his  hand  steal  beneath  his


WEIRD  TALES

robe.  Perhaps  it  concealed  a  deadly weapon.

As  he  watched  from  the  comer  of his  eye  his  suspicions  were  confirmed, for  the  High  Priest,  while  mumbling some  incoherent  incantations,  drew an  iron-headed  mace  from  beneath his  yellow  robe  and  raised  it  to  strike. When  the  blow  fell  he  threw  himself to  one  side,  then  leaped  to  his  feet and  swung  for  where  he  judged  the priest’s  jaw  to  be  beneath  the  croco¬ dile  mask.

To  his  intense  surprize  a  powerful hand  reached  out  from  behind  the curtain  and  caught  his  arm,  checking the  blow  and  whirling  him  about. The  owner  of  the  hand  spoke  softly.

“Not  so  fast,  me  bye.  Not  so  fast. Would  yez  punch  a  friend  in  the face?’’

“Dan  Rafferty!”  he  exclaimed. “How  in  blazes  did  you  get  here?”

“Shush.  Not  so  loud.  Yez ’ll  have the  army  down  on  us  like  a  swarm  av bees.  Now  that  Hashin’s  dead - ”

“What?”

He  turned  and  saw,  for  the  first time,  that  the  blow  had  fallen  on  the head  of  Mezzar  Hashin,  who  was sprawled  on  the  floor  with  a  tiny stream  of  blood  trickling  from  the back  of  his  head.  The  priest  had dragged  something  from  beyond  the farther  curtain.  It  was  a  cage  in which  a  great  homed  owl  sat,  blink¬ ing  in  the  unaccustomed  glare  of light.

Opening  the  door  of  the  cage,  the priest  removed  the  bird,  avoided  a vicious  peck  from  its  sharp,  curved beak,  and  quickly  slipped  a  mask over  its  head,  fastening  it  with  tough strands  of  thin,  barely  visible  thread, which  he  wound  about  the  body  just beneath  the  wings.  With  a  start  of surprize,  Buell  saw  that  the  mask  was a  hideously  contorted  likeness  of  his own  face.

The  mask  in  place,  the  priest  pulled a  cord  that  opened  a  panel  in  the

ceiling  of  the  small  room,  and  tossed the  bird  up  through  it.

Rafferty  caught  at  his  sleeve  and* took  the  arm  of  Alan.

“Buell,”  he  said,  “I  want  you  to meet  up  wid  me  friend,  Alcibar. Alcie,  shake  hands  wid  Mr.  Buell. Take  off  yer  masks  so  yez ’ll  know what  each  other  looks  like.”

The  former  High  Priest  removed his  mask,  and  Buell  his.  They  shook hands  gravely.  Buell  scanned  the hideous,  mutilated  features.

‘  ‘  I  should  rather  meet  you  any  day than  Sethral,”  he  said.

“Sethral  will  never  slay  another Osiris  N,”  replied  Alcibar.  “Be¬ hold.”

He  lifted  the  yellow  curtain.  The body  of  the  High  Priest  of  Re  was huddled  on  the  floor  behind  it.  A bloody  dent  in  the  right  temple showed  how  he  had  died.

“Alcie  croaked  him  as  soon  as  he stuck  his  head  in  the  door,  ’  ’  said  Dan.

‘  ‘  It  was  wan  peach  of  a  wallop.  ’  ’

The  ex-priest  dropped  the  curtain.

“We  must  go  on  with  the  cere¬ mony,  ’  ’  he  said.  ‘  ‘  If  there  is  a  break, someone  may  suspect  that  all  is  not well.  Here,  help  me  with  this  car¬ cass.  ’  ’

From  a  pocket  of  his  gown  he  took tape  and  gauze,  with  which  he  bound the  bleeding  wound  in  the  head  of Hashin,  while  Rafferty  held  it  up. Then,  taking  Buell’s  mask  and  head¬ dress,  he  placed  them  on  the  head  of the  corpse,  donned  his  own  mask,  and dragged  the  body  from  the  room.

“A  slick  bye,  Alcie,”  said  Dan when  he  was  gone.  “Used  to  be  High Priest  himself.  Knows  all  the  ropes.  ’  ’

‘  ‘  He  isn ’t  much  for  looks,  ’  ’  replied Buell,  “but  he  seems  to  be  a  square shooter.  ’  ’

‘  ‘  It  was  Hashin  spoiled  his  looks  and Sethral  put  him  up  to  it,”  explained Dan.  “That’s  how  it  happens  that he’s  on  our  side.  They  did  him  dirt and  they’ve  paid  the  penalty,  but  he ain’t  through  yet.  He  told  me  there’s

THE  BRIDE  OF  OSIRIS


several  more  lubbers  he  wants  to  get before  he  checks  out.  Says  he’s  livin’ only  for  revenge,  but  he’ll  help  us get  out  of  this  place  before  he  settles wid  the  other  bozos.  ”

“That’s  generous  of  him,”  an¬ swered  Buell.

“It  ain’t  so  much  generosity.  He made  a  bargain  wid  me,  and  he’s  a man  of  his  word.  I  got  him  out  of the  dungeon.  Now  he’s  going  to  try to  get  us  out  of  Kameter.  ’  ’

He  drew  back  the  yellow  curtain and  stepped  behind  it.  Presently  he called  softly  to  Buell.

“Come  here,  lad,”  he  said,  “and take  a  peek  at  the  grand  funeral they’re  givin’  for  yez.”

Peering  through  the  spy-hole,  Buell saw  the  leather-clad  soldiers  place the  body  of  Hashin  in  the  chest,  nail down  the  lid,  and  seal  it  with  molten lead.  He  turned  his  gaze  in  the direction  of  Doris  and  noticed  that her  hand  stole  toward  her  girdle,  then dropped  listlessly.  How  pale  she looked,  and  how  utterly  forlorn!  If only  he  might  reveal  the  truth  to  her ! But  there  was  no  way.  The  cere¬ mony  must  be  concluded.

He  and  Rafferty  took  turns  watch¬ ing  the  battle  between  the  followers of  Set  and  those  of  Horus,  and  the ceremonies  that  followed.  Shortly after  his  fetters  had  been  unlocked by  Doris,  Alcibar  rushed  into  the room.  Flinging  back  the  lid  of  the gilded  chest  in  the  comer,  he  took therefrom  a  mask  like  the  shaggy head  of  a  bull.

“You  are  now  to  wear  this  mask  of the  bull,  Apis,”  he  said.  “Stand  on the  topmost  step  until  the  people have  welcomed  you.  Then  walk  down and  take  the  hand  of  Isis.  Stand with  her  until  they  have  proclaimed her  the  Bride  of  Osiris.  At  that  point you  are  supposed  to  unmask.  To  do so,  however,  would  be  fatal,  as  the people  would  tear  you,  limb  from limb.  Instead  you  must  lead  her back  up  the  steps  as  quickly  as  pos¬

sible.  It  may  be  that  I  can  then  find a  way  of  escape  for  you.  ’  ’

Straightening  his  heavy  bull  mask, Buell  stepped  out  in  full  view  of  the people.  Pausing  for  a  moment  to  re¬ ceive  their  adulation,  he  advanced  to where  Doris  stood  and  took  her  hand. At  the  words:  “Hail  to  Isis,  Bride  of Osiris  and  co-ruler  of  Kameter,”  he started  to  lead  her  back  toward  the altar  in  accordance  with  their  pre¬ arranged  plan.  It  was  then  that  she twisted  her  hand  free,  whipped  out the  dagger  and  plunged  it  into  her breast.  He  leaped  forward,  caught her  wrist  in  a  grip  of  steel,  and  forced it  back,  but  the  point  of  the  dagger was  wet  with  her  blood.  She  slumped limply  into  his  arms.

With  an  agonized  cry,  he  tore  the mask  of  Athor  from  her  head.  Her eyes  were  closed,  her  nostrils  moving slightly.  A  mixed  crowd  had gathered  closely  around  them.  Thoth and  Homs  drove  them  back.

“Doris,”  he  cried,  “it  is  I,  Alan, come  to  save  you.”

She  opened  her  eyes  slowly — looked up  at  the  ugly  bull  mask.

“Lies!”  she  said.  “Lies!  Lies!”

Thoth,  however,  was  not  so  in¬ credulous.  He  knew  the  sound  of Hashin ’s  voice  so  well  that  Alan’s first  word  had  aroused  his  suspicion. Stepping  quickly  behind  him,  he jerked  off  the  mask  of  Apis.

“A  usurper!”  he  shouted.  “It  is the  Osiris  N !  Slay  him !  ’  ’

Instantly  Buell  faced  a  ring  of bared  simitars  and  couched  spears. Horus  whipped  out  his  keen  blade and  presented  it  at  Buell’s  heart.

“Surrender!”  he  rasped.  “Sur¬ render  or  die !  ’  ’

CHAPTER  18

THE  VENGEANCE  OF  ALCIBAR

As  he  stood  there  in  the  midst  of the  hostile  multitude  holding  the half-fainting  Doris  and  expecting instant  death,  Buell  heard  two  sounds


WEIRD  TALES

simultaneously — the  twang  of  a  bow¬ string  and  an  encouraging  shout from  Rafferty.

Horus,  with  an  arrow  through  his throat,  uttered  a  choking  cry  and slumped  forward.  Buell  wrenched the  simitar  from  his  death-grip  and, supporting  Doris  with  his  left  arm, laid  about  him  with  the  keen  weapon. The  erowd  drew  back  a  little  at  his furious  onslaught.  Then  a  giant form  bore  down  on  him — the  huge commander  of  the  guards  of  Osiris. He  swung  his  six-foot  simitar  in  a blow  that  would  have  sheared  off Buell’s  head  as  easily  as  a  blade  of grass.  Alan  ducked,  leaped  forward, and  ran  him  through  the  middle.  As he  crashed  hack  on  those  behind  him, Buell  eaught  a  glimpse  of  two  figures behind  the  altar.  A  vestal  virgin and  a  yellow-robed  priest  were  firing arrows  into  the  crowd  as  fast  as  they could  fit  them  to  the  bowstrings.  An¬ other  figure,  also  attired  as  a  priest of  Re,  was  smashing  through  the crowd  toward  him,  cracking  heads and  arms  to  right  and  left  as  he swung  two  heavy  maces  with  flail-like blows.

In  another  instant  Buell  and  Raf¬ ferty  were  fighting  side  by  side  with Doris  between  them,  supported  by  the arm  of  the  former.

The  arrows  continued  to  take  dead¬ ly  toll  of  those  around  them  as  they backed  toward  the  altar.  Time  and again  the  lives  of  one  or  the  other were  saved  by  the  swift  shafts  of Delra  or  Akibar,  who  had  turned the  toy  weapons  of  the  vestal  virgins to  good  advantage.

At  length  they  made  the  steps. Here  Buell  and  Rafferty  held  the crowd  at  bay  while  Delra  helped Doris  to  the  temporary  safety  of  the Holy  Place.

Alcibar,  his  arrows  gone,  seized  the brazier  of  burning  incense  and  hurled it  in  the  faces  of  the  attackers,  mo¬ mentarily  blinding  those  who  stood in  front.

‘  ‘  Come  quickly,  ’  ’  he  called.  ‘  ‘  Fol¬ low  me.”

As  they  ran  into  the  room  behind the  blazing  disk,  several  heavy  spears struck  around  them.  Alcibar slammed  the  door  and  slid  the  bolt in  place.  Delra  was  binding  the wound  in  Doris’  breast,  a  wound that  was  not  deep  because  of  the quick  intervention  of  Buell.

Raising  the  heavy  curtain,  the ex-priest  opened  the  trap-door  be¬ hind  it.

“Down  the  steps,  all  of  you!”  he cried.  “There  is  not  a  moment  to lose.  The  soldiers  may  be  deterred for  a  time  by  fear  of  the  Holy  Place, but  it  will  not  be  for  long.  ’  ’

Securing  his  simitar  to  his  wrist  by its  tasseled  cord,  Buell  helped  Doris down  the  steps.  Rafferty  followed with  Delra,  and  Aleibar  came  after them,  pausing  only  to  close  and  befit the  trap-door.  He  called  to  Buell.

‘  ‘  Turn  to  the  left  I  will  lead  the way  in  a  moment  ’  ’

They  hurried  down  the  dimly lighted  passageway  as  directed. Presently  Alcibar  eaught  up  with them,  then  took  the  lead.

“We  are  now  beneath  the  temple gardens,”'  he  said.  “From  here’ we pass  directly  under  the  city.”

They  pressed  forward  in  silence. Buell’s  numerous  wounds,  unnoticed until  new  in  the  heat  of  battle, smarted  painfully.  His  once  beauti¬ ful  silk  costume  hung  on  him  m shreds.  Alcibar  had  apparently  come through  unscathed,  though  his magnificent  robes  were  bedraggled and  there  was  a  bloodstain  on  his sleeve.  Doris’  self-inflicted  wound had  left  a  crimson  stain  cm  the  breast of  her  pale  blue  garment.  Like Aleibar,  Delra  was  unwounded  in  the reeent  encounter,  but  her  scant  danc¬ ing  costume  revealed  the  welts  she had  received  from  the  whip,  some  of which  had  been  reopened  by  her  ex¬ ertions.  Swinging  along  beside  her with  her  slender  arm  in  his  huge  left

THE  BRIDE  OF  OSIRIS


hand  and  the  two  maces  dangling from  his  right,  Dan  Rafferty  proudly carried  the  marks  of  battle.  His yellow  robe  was  full  of  rents  and covered  with  bloodstains,  and  the cowl  had  been  completely  tom  away. A  simitar-cut  above  his  left  eyebrow gave  him  a  rather  ferocious  expres¬ sion.  When  they  had  traveled  for  a considerable  distance  he  called  to Alcibar.

“Where  the  diwil  is  that  boat  yez were  tellin’ me  about,  Alcie?  Is  it  in Port  Said  or  Honolulu?”

“About  a  half-mile  farther  on.  We should  be  there  in  a  few  minutes.”

Faintly  at  first,  but  gradually growing  more  distinct,  came  the sound  of  voices  and  footsteps  in  the passageway  behind  them.,

“They’re  coming,”  called  Buell. “Hurry  ahead,  all  of  you.  I’U  be  the the  rear-guard.”

“Now  be  the  bones  of  St.  Patrick’s toe,  where  do  yez  get  that  stuff?”  re¬ plied  Rafferty  indignantly.  “I’ll  be the  rear-guard.”

“No  time  for  argument.  We’ll guard  the  rear  together.  The  girls can  go  forward  with  Alcibar.”

Buell  clutched  his  simitar,  Rafferty took  a  mace  in  each  hand,  and  they fell  back  about  fifty  feet  behind  the others.  The  expected  attack  came  a few  minutes  later.  Fortunately  for the  pursued,  the  pursuers  were  the giant  guards  of  Osiris,  who  fought at  a  disadvantage  in  the  low,  nar¬ row  passageway,  as  they  could  only come  forward  one  at  a  time  and  all had  to  stoop  to  avoid  the  arched  ceil¬ ing.

Rafferty  beat  down  the  guard  of the  first  man  with  a  maee  and  Buell thrust  him  through  the  throat.  The next  man  fought  more  warily,  but finally  succumbed  to  a  blow  from  an iron  shillalah,  falling  across  the  body of  his  companion.  The  third  guard carried  a  spear.  He  made  a  lunge  at Rafferty,  but  the  Irishman  seized  the weapon  and  jerked  him  forward  so

that  he  stumbled  across  the  bodies  of the  other  two.  Again  Buell’s  simitar drank  blood.

“Come  on,”  said  Dan.  “They’ll have  to  pull  thim  three  hulks  out  av the  way  before  they  can  get  through now.  ’  ’

They  hurried  forward  once  more and  presently  saw  Alcibar  and  the two  girls  waiting  for  them.

“Go  on.  What ’re  yez  waitin* for?”  asked  Dan.

“We’re  waiting  for  you,”  replied Alcibar.  “I  now  have  a  way  of stopping  further  pursuit,  for  a  time at  least.”

He  reached  up  to  a  crack  in  the masonry  and  thrust  his  finger  within it.  There  was  a  hum  of  hidden  mo¬ tors,  and  a  heavy  section  of  wall dropped  into  the  passageway  behind them  just  as  the  shouts  of  their  pur¬ suers  began  to  grow  audible  again.

“Another  was  opened  on  the  other side  which  leads  into  a  passageway that  circles  and  ends  in  a  blank  wall about  a  half-mile  back,”  explained the  ex-priest.  “It  is  a  clever  thing, and  was  devised  by  Mezzar  Hashin the  Second  when  he  improved  the original  tunnel  built  by  his  father. We  have  only  a  short  distance  to  go now.”

The  tunnel  ended  at  the  foot  of  a flight  of  narrow  steps.  Ascend¬ ing  these,  they  emerged  in  a  small room,  one  end  of  which  was  paneled with  thick  glass  in  the  center  of  which a  metal  door  was  set.

The  ex-priest  opened  this  door, which  Buell  noticed  was  rimmed  with rubber  gaskets.  The  room  beyond, much  larger  than  the  first  one,  was also  of  steel,  paneled  on  two  sides with  thick  glass.  A  cigar-shaped  boat, evidently  a  submarine,  for  it  was equipped  with  vertical  and  horizontal rudders,  planes,  and  a  screw  pro¬ peller,  stood  on  a  pair  of  high  skids that  slanted  downward  toward  an arched  glass  panel,  and  Buell  saw  a


WEIRD  TALES

small  fish  swim  down  into  the  circle of  light  and  look  inquiringly  at  them, its  gills  moving  slowly,  its  scales glistening  in  the  artificial  light.

Alcibar  closed  and  fastened  the gasketed  door.

“Like  his  distinguished  forebears, Mezzar  Hashin  the  Fourth  thought of  many  things,”  he  said,  “Foresee¬ ing  that  Karneter  might  some  day  be discovered  and  perhaps  captured,  he planned  a  mode  of  escape,  and  with it  a  way  to  destroy  the  conquering hosts.  You  now  behold  the  result  of his  forethought.”

He  climbed  the  iron  ladder  which led  to  the  top  of  the  submarine. Leaning  forward,  he  worked  at  a catch  for  a  moment  and  swung  back a  heavy,  circular  door.  Then  he  dis¬ appeared  inside  the  craft.  A  short time  after  there  was  a  throbbing  hum from  inside  the  boat  and  the  propeller blade  cut  the  air  with  a  roar  like that  of  an  airplane.

The  ex-priest’s  head  appeared  at the  top  of  the  ladder.

“Gome,”  he  shouted,  his  voice .barely  audible  above  the  roar  of  the whirling  blade.

Buell  helped  Doris  up  the  ladder and  Rafferty  followed  with  Delra. Descending  a  small  stairway  that  led down  from  the  round  hatch,  they found  themselves  in  a  snug  cabin  with a  round  window  of  heavy  glass  on each  side.  At  the  front  end  of  the cabin,  steps  led  up  to  the  steersman ’s seat,  which  was  under  a  rounded dome,  also  paneled  with  thick  glass.

“Begorry,  this  seems  like  home,” said  Dan.  “Yez  gave  me  the  straight dope,  Alcie  old  kid.”

“Do  you  think  you  can  run  her?”

“Just  show  me  what  thim  levers are  for  and  I  ’ll  run  her  clear  to  Hali¬ fax.  I  didn’t  spend  four  years  on  a submarine  for  nothing.  ’  ’

Taking  Dan  aloft,  the  ex-priest  ex¬ plained  the  uses  of  the  various wheels,  buttons  and  levers.  Then  he descended.  He  motioned  to  Buell.

“Everything  is  in  readiness  now,” he  said.  “You  must  come  up  with me  and  close  the  hatch  from  the  in¬ side.  ’  ’

“Why,  aren’t  you  going  with  us?” asked  Buell  in  surprize.

“No.  My  place  is  here  in  Kar¬ neter,  and  here  I  remain.  The  upper world  offers  no  inducements  to  me.”

“But  you  will  surely  be  killed.”

“ That  is  my  lookout.  Come.”

When  they  reached  the  round hatchway,  Alcibar  stepped  over  to the  top  of  the  iron  ladder.  He pointed  to  two  long  levers  that  hung down  from  the  ceiling  just  above  his head.

“This  lever,”  he  said,  “opens  the glass  panel  at  the  end  of  the  skids and  shoots  the  submarine  out  into the  lake  as  soon  as  the  room  is  half filled  with  water.  This  one,”  indi¬ cating  the  other,  “sets  off  six  enor¬ mous  bombs  that  will  blast  every  pane of  glass  between  the  lake  and  the doomed  city.”  Suddenly  he  pointed toward  the  glass  panel  in  the  side  of the  room.  Buell  looked,  and  saw that  a  orowd  of  armed  men  was rushing  toward  them.

“They  come,”  cried  Alcibar,  “the minions  of  Hashin,  yelping  like hounds  after  a  fox,  but  this  time  the fox  will  turn  on  them — this  time  the hounds  will  die  with  their  victim.

He  pulled  back  the  first  lever.  The panel  at  the  end  of  the  skids  moved upward  and  Buell  saw  that  the  room was  filling  rapidly.

“Fasten  the  hatch,”  shouted  Alcibar.

Buell  grabbed  for  his  legs,  intend¬ ing  to  draw  him  within  the  submarine before  he  could  touch  the  deadly  sec¬ ond  lever,  but  the  ex-priest  was  too quick  for  him.  Leaping  aloft,  he threw  his  full  weight  on  it  and  a  ter¬

[THE END]

============================================================
THE  OLD  NURSE’S  STORY _ ELIZABETH  C
by Gaskell
============================================================
rific  concussion  shook  the  room.  A wall  of  yellow  water  shot  past  the ( Continued  on  page  575)

WEIRD  STORY  REPRINT

The  Old  Nurse’s  Story

By  MRS.  GASKELL

YOU  know,  my  dears,  that  your mother  was  an  orphan,  and an  only  child;  and  I  dare  say you  have  heard  that  your  grand¬ father  was  a  clergyman  up  in  West¬ moreland,  where  I  come  from.  I  was just  a  girl  in  the  village  school,  when one  day  your  grandmother  came  in to  ask  the  mistress  if  there  was  any scholar  there  who  would  do  for  a nurse-maid ;  and  mighty  proud  I  was, I  can  tell  ye,  when  the  mistress  called me  up,  and  spoke  to  my  being  a  good girl  at  my  needle,  and  a  steady, honest  girl,  and  one  whose  parents were  very  respectable,  though  they might  be  poor.  I  thought  I  should like  nothing  better  than  to  serve  the pretty  young  lady,  who  was  blushing as  deep  as  I  was,  as  she  spoke  of  the coming  baby,  and  what  I  should  have to  do  with  it.  However,  I  see  you don’t  care  so  much  for  this  part  of my  story,  as  for  what  you  think  is  to come,  so  I’ll  tell  you  at  once.

I  was  engaged  and  settled  at  the parsonage  before  Miss  Rosamond (that  was  the  baby,  who  is  now  your mother)  was  bom.  .To  be  sure,  I  had little  enough  to  do  with  her  when  she came,  for  she  was  never  out  of  her mother’s  arms,  and  slept  by  her  all night  long;  and  proud  enough  was  I sometimes  when  missis  trusted  her  to me.  She  took  after  her  mother,  who was  a  lady  bora ;  a  Miss  Fumivall,  a granddaughter  of  Lord  Fumivall’s, in  Northumberland.  I  believe  she had  neither  brother  nor  sister,  and had  been  brought  up  in  my  lord’s family  till  she  had  married  ybur

grandfather,  who  was  just  a  curate, son  to  a  shopkeeper  in  Carlisle — but a  clever,  fine  gentleman  as  ever  was — and  one  who  was  a  right-down  hard worker  in  his  parish,  which  was  very wide,  and  scattered  all  abroad  over the  Westmoreland  Fells.  When  your mother,  little  Miss  Rosamond,  was about  four  or  five  years  old,  both  her parents  died  in  a  fortnight — one after  the  other.  Ah!  that  was  a  sad time.  My  pretty  young  mistress  and me  was  looking  for  another  baby, when  my  master  came  home  from  one of  his  long  rides,  wet  and  tired,  and took  the  fever  he  died  of;  and  then she  never  held  up  her  head  again,  but just  lived  to  see  her  dead  baby,  and have  it  laid  on  her  breast,  before  she sighed  away  her  life.  My  mistress had  asked  me,  on  her  death-bed, never  to  leave  Miss  Rosamond ;  but  if she  had  never  spoken  a  word,  I  would have  gone  with  the  little  child  to  the end  of  the  world.

The  next  thing,  and  before  we  had well  stilled  our  sobs,  the  executors and  guardians  came  to  settle  the affairs.  They  were  my  poor  young mistress’s  own  cousin,  Lord  FUmivall,  and  Mr..  Esth waite,  my  master’s brother,  a  shopkeeper  in  Manchester; not  so  well-to-do  then  as  he  was afterward,  and  with  a  large  family rising  about  him.  Well!  I  don’t know  if  it  were  their  settling,  or  be¬ cause  of  a  letter  my  mistress  wrote on  her  death-bed  to  her  ctfusin,  my lord;  but  somehow  it  was  settled  that Miss  Rosamond  and  me  were  to  go  to Fumivall  Manor  House,  in  Northum663


WEIRD  TALES

berland,  and  my  lord  spoke  as  if  it had  been  her  mother’s  wish  that  she should  live  with  his  family,  and  as  if he  had  no  objections,  for  that  one  or two  more  or  less  could  make  no  differ¬ ence  in  so  grand  a  household.  So, though  that  was  not  the  way  in  which I  should  have  wished  the  coming  of my  bright  and  pretty  pet  to  have been  looked  at — who  was  like  a  sun¬ beam  in  any  family,  be  it  never  so grand — I  was  well  pleased  that  all the  folks  in  the  Dale  should  stare  and admire,  when  they  heard  I  was  going to  be  young  lady’s  maid  at  my  Lord Furnivall’s  at  Fumivall  Manor.

But  I  made  a  mistake  in  thinking we  were  to  go  and  live  where  my  lord did.  It  turned  out  that  the  family had  left  Fumivall  Manor  House  fifty years  or  more.  I  could  not  hear  that my  poor  young  mistress  had  ever been  there,  though  she  had  been brought  up  in  the  family;  and  I  was sorry  for  that,  for  I  should  have  liked Miss  Rosamond’s  youth  to  have passed  where  her  mother’s  had  been.

My  lord’s  gentleman,  from  whom  I asked  as  many  questions  as  I  durst, said  that  the  Manor  House  was  at  the foot  of  the  Cumberland  Fells,  and  a very  grand  place;  that  an  old  Miss Fumivall,  a  great-aunt  of  my  lord’s, lived  there,  with  only  a  few  servants  ; but  that  it  was  a  very  healthy  place, and  my  lord  had  thought  that  it would  suit  Miss  Rosamond  very  well for  a  few  years,  and  that  her  being there  might  amuse  his  old  aunt.

I  was  bidden  by  my  lord  to  have Miss  Rosamond’s  things  ready  by  a certain  day.  He  was  a  stern,  proud man,  as  they  say  all  the  Lords  Fumi¬ vall  were ;  and  he  never  spoke  a  word more  than  was  necessary.  Folk  did say  he  had  loved  my  young  mistress ; but  that,  because  she  knew  that  his father  would  object,  she  would  never listen  to  him,  and  married  Mr.  Esthwaite;  but  I  don’t  know.  He  never married,  at  any  rate.  He  sent  his gentleman  with  us  to  the  Manor

House,  telling  him  to  join  him  at Newcastle  that  same  evening ;  so there  was  no  great  length  of  time  for him  to  make  us  known  to  all  the strangers  before  he,  too,  shook  us  off ; and  we  were  left,  two  lonely  young things  (I  was  not  eighteen)  in  the great  old  Manor  House.

It  seems  like  yesterday  that  we drove  there.  We  had  left  our  own dear  parsonage  very  early,  and  we had  both  cried  as  if  our  hearts  would break,  though  we  were  traveling  in my  lord’s  carriage,  which  I  thought so  much  of  once.  And  now  it  was  long past  noon  on  a  September  day,  and we  stopped  to  change  horses  for  the last  time  at  a  little  smoky  town,  all full  of  colliers  and  miners.  Miss Rosamond  had  fallen  asleep,  but  Mr. Henry  told  me  to  waken  her,  that she  might  see  the  park  and  the  Manor House  as  we  drove  up.  I  thought  it rather  a  pity ;  but  I  did  what  he  bade me,  for  fear  he  should  complain  of me  to  my  lord.  We  had  left  all  signs of  a  town,  or  even  a  village,  and  were then  inside  the  gates  of  a  large  wild park — not  like  the  parks  here  in  the south,  but  with  rocks,  and  the  noise of  running  water,  and  gnarled  thorntrees,  and  old  oaks,  all  white  and peeled  with  age.

The  road  went  up  about  two  miles, and  then  we  saw  a  great  and stately  house,  with  many  trees  close around  it,  so  close  that  in  some  places their  branches  dragged  against  the walls  when  the  wind  blew ;  and  some hung  broken  down ;  for  no  one seemed  to  take  much  charge  of  the place.  Only  in  front  of  the  house  all was  clear.  The  great  oval  drive  was without  a  weed ;  and  neither  tree  nor creeper  was  allowed  to  grow  over  the long,  many-windowed  front;  at  both sides  of  which  a  wing  projected, which  were  each  the  ends  of  other side  fronts;  for  the  house,  although it  was  so  desolate,  was  even  grander than  I  expected.  Behind  it  rose  the

THE  OLD  NURSE’S  STORY


Fells,  which  seemed  unenclosed  and bare  enough ;  and  on  the  left  hand  of the  house,  as  you  stood  facing  it,  was a  little,  old-fashioned  flower-garden, as  I  found  out  afterward.  A  door opened  out  upon  it  from  the  west front ;  it  had  been  scooped  out  of  the thick,  dark  wood  for  some  old  Lady Fumivall;  but  the  branches  of  the great  forest-trees  had  grown  and overshadowed  it  again,  and  there were  very  few  flowers  that  would live  there  at  that  time.

When  we  drove  up  to  the  great front  entrance,  and  went  into  the hall,  I  thought  we  should  be  lost — it was  so  large,  and  vast,  and  grand. There  was  a  chandelier  all  of  bronze, hung  down  from  the  middle  of  the ceiling ;  and  I  had  never  seen  one  be¬ fore,  and  looked  at  it  all  in  amaze. Then,  at  one  end  of  the  hall,  was  a great  fireplace,  as  large  as  the  sides of  the  houses  in  my  country,  with massy  andirons  and  dogs  to  hold  the wood;  and  by  it  were  heavy,  oldfashioned  sofas.  At  the  opposite  end of  the  hall,  to  the  left  as  you  went  in — on  the  western  side — was  an  organ built  into  the  wall,  and  so  large  that it  filled  up  the  best  part  of  that  end. Beyond  it,  on  the  same  side,  was  a door;  and  opposite,  on  each  side  of the  fireplace,  were  also  doors  leading to  the  east  front;  but  those  I  never went  through  as  long  as  I  stayed  in the  house,  so  I  can’t  tell  you  what lay  beyond.

The  afternoon  was  closing  in,  and the  hall,  which  had  no  fire  lighted  in it,  looked  dark  and  gloomy,  but  we did  not  stay  there  a  moment.  The old  servant,  who  had  opened  the  door for  us,  bowed  to  Mr.  Henry,  and took  us  in  through  the  door  at  the further  side  of  the  great  organ,  and led  us  through  several  smaller  halls and  passages  into  the  west  drawing room,  where  he  said  that  Miss Fumivall  was  sitting.  Poor  little Miss  Rosamond  held  very  tight  to me,  as  if  she  were  scared  and  lost  in

that  great  place;  and  as  for  myself, I  was  not  much  better.  The  west drawing  room  was  very  cheerfullooking,  with  a  warm  fire  in  it,  and plenty  of  good,  comfortable  furniture about.

Miss  Fumivall  was  an  old  lady not  far  from  eighty,  I  should  think, but  I  do  not  know.  She  was  thin and  tall,  and  had  a  face  as  full of  fine  wrinkles  as  if  they  had  been drawn  all  over  it  with  a  needle’s point.  Her  eyes  were  very  watchful, to  make  up,  I  suppose,  for  her  being so  deaf  as  to  be  obliged  to  use  a trumpet.  Sitting  with  her,  working at  the  same  great  piece  of  tapestry, was  Mrs.  Stark,  her  maid  and  com¬ panion,  and  almost  as  old  as  she  was. She  had  lived  with  Miss  Fumivall ever  since  they  both  were  young,  and now  she  seemed  more  like  a  friend than  a  servant;  she  looked  so  cold, and  gray,  and  stony,  as  if  she  had never  loved  or  cared  for  anyone ;  and I  don’t  suppose  she  did  care  for  any¬ one,  except  her  mistress;  and,  owing to  the  great  deafness  of  the  latter, Mrs.  Stark  treated  her  very  much  as if  she  were  a  child.  Mr.  Henry  gave some  message  from  my  lord,  and then  he  bowed  good-bye  to  us  all, and  left  us  standing  there,  being looked  at  by  the  two  old  ladies through  their  spectacles.

I  was  right  glad  when  they  rung for  the  old  footman  who  had  shown us  in  at  first,  and  told  him  to  take  us to  our  rooms.  So  wre  went  out  of  that great  drawing  room,  and  into  another sitting  room,  and  out  of  that,  and then  up  a  great  flight  of  stairs,  and along  a  broad  gallery — which  was something  like  a  library,  having books  all  down  one  side,  and  windows and  writing-tables  all  down  the  other — till  we  came  to  our  rooms,  which  I was  not  sorry  to  hear  were  just  over the  kitchens;  for  I  began  to  think  I should  be  lost  in  that  -wilderness  of  a house.  There  -was  an  old  nursery, that  had  been  used  for  all  the  little


WEIRD  TALES

lords  and  ladies  long  ago,  with  a pleasant  fire  burning  in  the  grate, and  the  kettle  boiling  on  the  hob,  and tea-things  spread  out  on  the  table; and  out  of  that  room  was  the  nightnursery,  with  a  little  crib  for  Miss Rosamond  close  to  my  bed.  And  old James  called  up  Dorothy,  his  wife,  to bid  us  welcome ;  and  both  he  and  she were  so  hospitable  and  kind,  that  byand-by  Miss  Rosamond  and  me  felt quite  at  home;  and  by  the  time  tea was  over,  she  was  sitting  on  Doro¬ thy’s  knee,  and  chattering  away  as fast  as  her  little  tongue  could  go.

I  soon  found  out  that  Dorothy  was from  Westmoreland,  and  that  bound her  and  me  together,  as  it  were;  and I  would  never  wish  to  meet  with kinder  people  than  were  old  James and  his  wife.  James  had  lived  pretty nearly  all  his  life  in  my  lord’s  fam¬ ily,  and  thought  there  was  no  one  so grand  as  they.  He  even  looked  down a  little  on  his  wife;  because,  till  he had  married  her,  she  had  never  lived in  any  but  a  farmer’s  household, But  he  was  very  fond  of  her,  as  well he  might  be.  They  had  one  servant under  them,  to  do  all  the  rough  wrork. Agnes  they  called  her;  and  she  and me,  and  James  and  Dorothy,  with Miss  Furnivall  and  Mrs.  Stark,  made up  the  family;  always  remembering my  sweet  little  Miss  Rosamond!  I used  to  wonder  what  they  had  done before  she  came,  they  thought  so much  of  her  now.  Kitchen  and drawing  room,  it  was  all  the  same. The  hard,  sad  Miss  Furnivall,  and the  cold  Mrs.  Stark,  looked  pleased when  she  came  fluttering  in  like  a bird,  playing  and  pranking  hither and  thither,  with  a  continual  mur¬ mur,  and  pretty  prattle  of  gladness. I  am  sure,  they  were  sorry  many  a time  when  she  flitted  away  into  the kitchen,  though  they  were  too  proud to  ask  her  to  stay  with  them,  and were  a  little  surprized  at  her  taste; though  to  be  sure,  as  Mrs.  Stark  said, it  was  not  to  be  wondered  at,  remem¬

bering  what  stock  her  father  had come  of.

The  great,  old  rambling  house  was a  famous  place  for  little  Miss  Rosa¬ mond.  She  made  expeditions  all over  it,  with  me  at  her  heels ;  all,  ex¬ cept  the  east  wing,  which  was  never opened,  and  whither  we  never thought  of  going.  But  in  the  west¬ ern  and  northern  part  was  many  a pleasant  room;  full  of  things  that were  curiosities  to  us,  though  they might  not  have  been  to  people  who had  seen  more.  The  windows  were darkened  by  the  sweeping  boughs  of the  trees,  and  the  ivy  which  had  over¬ grown  them ;  but,  in  the  green  gloom, we  could  manage  to  see  old  china  jars and  carved  ivory  boxes,  and  great heavy  books,  and,  above  all,  the  old pictures !

Once,  I  remember,  my  darling would  have  Dorothy  go  with  us  to  tell us  who  they  all  were;  for  they  were all  portraits  of  some  of  my  lord’s family,  though  Dorothy  could  not  tell us  the  names  of  every  one.  We  had gone  through  most  of  the  rooms, when  we  came  to  the  old  state  draw¬ ing  room  over  the  hall,  and  there  was a  picture  of  Miss  Furnivall;  or,  as she  was  called  in  those  days,  Miss Grace,  for  she  was  the  younger  sister. Such  a  beauty  she  must  have  been! but  with  such  a  set,  proud  look,  and such  scorn  looking  out  of  her  hand¬ some  eyes,  with  her  eyebrows  just  a little  raised,  as  if  she  wondered  how anyone  could  have  the  impertinence to  look  at  her,  and  her  lip  curled  at us,  as  we  stood  there  gazing.  She  had a  dress  on,  the  like  of  which  I  had never  seen  before,  but  it  was  all  the fashion  when  she  was  young :  a  hat  of some  soft  white  stuff  like  beaver, pulled  a  little  over  her  brows,  and  a beautiful  plume  of  feathers  sweep¬ ing  round  it  on  one  side;  and  her gown  of  blue  satin  was  open  in  front to  a  quilted  white  stomacher.

“Well,  to  be  sure!”  said  I,  when  I had  gazed  my  fill.  “Flesh  is  grass,

THE  OLD  NURSE’S  STORY


they  do  say;  but  who  would  have thought  that  Miss  Furnivall  had  been such  an  out-an-out  beauty,  to  see  her now  ?  ’  ’

“Yes,”  said  Dorothy.  “Folks change  sadly.  But  if  what  my  mas¬ ter  ’s  father  used  to  say  was  true,  Miss Furnivall,  the  elder  sister,  was  hand¬ somer  than  Miss  Grace.  Her  picture is  here  somewhere;  but,  if  I  show  it you,  you  must  never  let  on,  even  to James,  that  you  have  seen  it.  Can the  little  lady  hold  her  tongue,  think you?”  asked  she.

I  was  not  so  sure,  for  she  was  such a  little  sweet,  bold,  open-spoken  child, so  I  set  her  to  hide  herself ;  and  then I  helped  Dorothy  to  turn  a  great picture,  that  leaned  with  its  face toward  the  wall,  and  was  not  hung  up as  the  others  were.  To  be  sure,  it beat  Miss  Grace  for  beauty;  and,  I think,  for  scornful  pride,  too,  though in  that  matter  it  might  be  hard  to choose.  I  could  have  looked  at  it  an hour,  but  Dorothy  seemed  half frightened  at  having  shown  it  to  me, and  hurried  it  back  again,  and  bade me  run  and  find  Miss  Rosamond,  for that  there  were  some  ugly  places about  the  house,  where  she  should like  ill  for  the  child  to  go.  I  was  a brave,  high-spirited  girl,  and  thought little  of  what  the  old  woman  said, for  I  liked  hide-and-seek ;  so  off  I  ran to  find  my  little  one.

ts  winter  drew  on,  and  the  days -**-  grew  shorter,  I  was  sometimes almost  certain  that  I  heard  a  noise  as if  someone  was  playing  on  the  great organ  in  the  hall.  I  did  not  hear  it every  evening;  but,  certainly,  I  did very  often,  usually  when  I  was  sit¬ ting  with  Miss  Rosamond,  after  I  had put  her  to  bed,  and  keeping  quite still  and  silent  in  the  bedroom.  Then I  used  to  hear  it  booming  and  swell¬ ing  away  in  the  distance.

The  first  night,  when  I  went  down to  my  supper,  I  asked  Dorothy  who had  been  playing  music,  and  James

said  very  shortly  that  I  was  a  gowk to  take  the  wind  soughing  among  the trees  for  music;  but  I  saw  Dorothy look  at  him  very  fearfully,  and  Bessy, the  kitchen-maid,  said  something  be¬ neath  her  breath,  and  went  quite white.  I  saw  they  did  not  like  my question,  so  I  held  my  peace  till  I was  with  Dorothy  alone,  when  I knew  I  could  get  a  good  deal  out  of her.  So,  the  next  day,  I  watched  my time,  and  I  coaxed  and  asked  her who  it  was  that  played  the  organ; for  I  knew  that  it  was  the  organ  and not  the  wind  well  enough,  for  all  I had  kept  silence  before  James.  But Dorothy  had  had  her  lesson,  I  ’ll  war¬ rant,  and  never  a  word  could  I  get frofti  her.  So  then  I  tried  Bessy, though  I  had  always  held  my  head rather  above  her,  as  I  was  evened  to James  and  Dorothy,  and  she  was little  better  than  their  servant.  So she  said  I  must  never,  never  tell ;  and if  ever  I  told,  I  was  never  to  say  she had  told  me ;  but  it  was  a  very strange  noise,  and  she  had  heard  it many  a  time,  but  most  of  all  on winter  nights,  and  before  storms ; and  folks  did  say  it  was  the  old  lord playing  on  the  great  organ  in  the hall,  just  as  he  used  to  do  when  he was  alive;  but  who  the  old  lord  was, or  why  he  played,  and  why  he  played on  stormy  winter  evenings  in  particu¬ lar,  she  either  could  not  or  would  not tell  me.  Well!  I  told  you  I  had  a brave  heart ;  and  I  thought  it  was rather  pleasant  to  have  that  grand music  rolling  about  the  house,  let  who would  be  the  player;  for  now  it  rose above  the  great  gusts  of  wind,  and wailed  and  triumphed  just  like  a  liv¬ ing  creature,  and  then  it  fell  to  a softness  most  complete,  only  it  was always  music,  and  tunes,  so  it  was nonsense  to  call  it  the  wind.

I  thought  at  first  that  it  might  be Miss  Furnivall  who  played,  unknown to  Bessy ;  but  one  day,  when  I  was  in the  hall  by  myself,  I  opened  the organ  and  peeped  all  about  it  and


WEIRD  TALES

around  it,  as  I  had  done  to  the  organ in  Crosthwaite  Church  once  before, and  I  saw  it  was  all  broken  and  de¬ stroyed  inside,  though  it  looked  so brave  and  fine  ;  and  then,  though  it was  noon-day,  my  flesh  began  to creep  a  little,  and  I  dint  it  up,  and run  away  pretty  quickly  to  my  own bright  nursery;  and  I  did  not  like hearing  the  musie  for  some  time  alter that,  any  more  than  James  and Dorothy  did.  All  this  time  Miss Rosamond  was  making  herself  more and  more  beloved.  The  old  ladies liked  her  to  dine  with  them  at  their early  dinner.  James  stood  behind Miss  Furnivall ’s  chair,  and  I  behind Miss  Rosamond’s  all  in  state;  and after  dinner  she  would  play  about  in a  corner  of  the  great  drawing  room as  still  as  any  mouse,  while  Miss Furnivall  slept,  and  I  had  my  dinner in  the  kitchen.  But  she  was  glad enough  to  come  to  me  in  the  nursery afterward ;  for,  as  she  said,  Miss Furnivall  was  so  sad,  and  Mrs.  Stark so  dull;  but  she  and  I  were  merry enough;  and  by-and-by,  I  got  not  to care  for  that  weird  rolling  music, whieh  did  one  no  barm,  if  we  did  not know  where  it  came  from.

HP  hat  winter  was  very  cold.  In  the ^  middle  of  October  the  frosts  be¬ gan,  and  lasted  many,  many  weeks. I  remember  one  day,  at  dinner,  Miss Furnivall  lifted  up  her  sad,  heavy eyes,  and  said  to  Mrs.  Stark,  “I  am afraid  we  shall  have  a  terrible winter,”  in  a  strange  kind  of  mean¬ ing  way.  But  Mrs.  Stark  pretended not  to  hear,  and  talked  very  loud  of something  else.  My  little  lady  and  I did  not  care  for  the  frost;  not  we! As  long  as  it  was  dry,  we  climbed  up the  steep  brows  behind  the  house,  and went  up  on  the  Fells,  which  were bleak  and  bare  enough,  and  there  we ran  races  in  the  fresh,  sharp  air;  and onee  we  came  down  by  a  new  path, that  took  us  past  the  two  old  gnarled holly-trees,  which  grew  about  half¬

way  down  by  the  east  side  of  die house.  But  the  days  grew  shorter and  shorter,  and  the  old  lord,  if  it was  he,  played  away,  more  and  more stormily  and  sadly,  on  the  great organ.

One  Sunday  afternoon — it  must have  been  toward  the  end  of  Novem¬ ber — I  asked  Dorothy  to  take  charge of  little  missy  when  she  came  out  of the  drawing  room,  after  Miss  Fumivall  had  had  her  nap;  for  it  was  too cold  to  take  her  with  me  to  church, and  yet  I  wanted  to  go.  And Dorothy  was  giad  enough  to  promise, and  was  so  fond  of  the  child,  that  all seemed  well ;  and  Bessy  and  I  set  off very  briskly,  though  die  sky  bung heavy  and  black  over  the  white  earth, as  if  die  night  had  never  fully  gone away,  and  the  air,  though  still,  was very  biting  and  keen.

“We  shall  have  a  fall  ©f  snow,” said  Bessy  to  me.  And  sure  enough, even  while  we  were  in  church,  it eame  down  thick,  in  great  large  flakes — so  thiek,  it  almost  darkened  the windows.  It  had  stopped  snowing before  we  eame  out,  but  it  lay  soft, thiek,  and  deep  beneath  our  feet,  as we  tramped  home.  Before  we  got  to the  hall,  the  moon  rose,  and  I  think it  was  lighter  then — what  with  the moon,  and  what  with  the  white  daz¬ zling  snow — than  it  had  been  when we  went  to  church,  between  2  and  3 o’clock.  I  have  not  told  you  that Miss  Furnivall  and  Mrs.,  Stark  never went  to  church;  they  used  to  read the  prayers  together,  in  their  quiet, gloomy  way;  they  seemed  to  feel  the Sunday  very  long  without  their tapestry-work  to  be  busy  at.  So when  I  went  to  Dorothy  in  the kitchen,  to  feteh  Miss  Rosamond  and take  her  upstairs  with  me,  I  did  not much  wonder  when  the  old  woman told  me  that  the  ladies  had  kept  the child  with  them,  and  that  she  had never  eome  to  the  kitchen,  as  I  had bidden  her,  when  she  was  tired  of  be¬ having  pretty  in  die  drawing  room.

THE  OLD  NURSE’S  STORY


So  I  took  off  my  things  and  went  to find  her,  and  bring  her  to  her  supper in  the  nursery.  But  when  I  went into  the  best  drawing  room,  there  sat the  two  old  ladies,  very  still  and quiet,  dropping  out  a  word  now  and then,  but  looking  as  if  nothing  so bright  and  merry  as  Miss  Rosamond had  ever  been  near  them.  Still  I thought  she  might  be  hiding  from me ;  it  was  one  of  her  pretty  ways,— and  that  she  had  persuaded  them  to look  as  if  they  knew  nothing  about her;  so  I  went  softly  peeping  under this  sofa,  and  behind  that  chair,  mak¬ ing  believe  I  was  sadly  frightened  at not  finding  her.

“What’s  the  matter,  Hester?’’  said Mrs.  Stark  sharply.  I  don’t  know  if Miss  Furnivall  had  seen  me,  for,  as  I told  you,  she  was  very  deaf,  and  she sat  quite  still,  idly  staring  into  the fire,  with  her  hopeless  face.  “I’m only  looking  for  my  little  Rosy Posy,”  replied  I,  still  thinking  that the  child  was  there,  and  near  me, though  I  could  not  see  her.

“Miss  Rosamond  is  not  here,”  said Mrs.  Stark.  “She  went  away,  more than  an  hour  ago,  to  find  Dorothy.”

My  heart  sank  at  this,  and  I  be¬ gan  to  wish  I  had  never  left  my darling.  I  went  back  to  Dorothy  and told  her.  James  was  gone  out  for the  day,  but  she,  and  me,  and  Bessy took  lights,  and  went  up  into  the nursery  first;  and  then  we  roamed over  the  great,  large  house,  calling and  entreating  Miss  Rosamond  to come  out  of  her  hiding  place,  and  not frighten  us  to  death  in  that  way. But  there  was  no  answer;  no  sound.

“Oh!”  said  I,  at  last,  “can  she have  got  into  the  east  wing  and  hid¬ den  there?”

But  Dorothy  said  it  was  not  pos¬ sible,  for  that  she  herself  had  never been  in  there;  that  the  doors  were always  locked,  and  my  lord ’s  steward had  the  keys,  she  believed;  at  arty rate,  neither  she  nor  James  had  ever seen  them ;  so  I  said  I  would  go  baok,

and  see  if,  after  all,  shp  was  not  hid¬ den  in  the  drawing  room,  unknown to  the  old  ladies ;  and  if  I  found  her there,  I  said,  I  would  whip  her  weH for  the  fright  she  had  given  me ;  but I  never  meant  to  do  it.

Well,  I  went  back  to  the  west drawing  room,  and  I  told  Mrs.  Stark we  could  not  find  her  anywhere,  and asked  for  leave  to  look  all  about  the furniture  there,  for  I  thought  now that  she  might  have  fallen  asleep  in some  warm,  hidden  comer;  but  no! we  looked — Miss  Furnivall  got  up and  looked,  trembling  all  over — and she  was  nowhere  there;  then  we  set off  again,  everyone  in  the  house,  and looked  in  all  the  places  we  had searched  before,  but  we  could  not find  her.  Miss  Furnivall  shivered and  shook  so  much,  that  Mrs.  Stark took  her  back  into  the  warm  draw¬ ing  room;  but  not  before  they  had made  me  promise  to  bring  her  to them  when  she  was  found.  Well-aday!  I  began  to  think  she  never would  be  found,  when  I  bethought me  to  look  into  the  great  front  court, all  covered  with  snow.  I  was  up¬ stairs  when  I  looked  out;  but,  it  was such  clear  moonlight,  I  could  see, quite  plain,  two  little  footprints, which  might  be  traced  from  the  halldoor  and  round  the  comer  of  the east  wing.

I  don’t  know  how  I  got  down,  but I  tugged  open  the  great  stiff  halldoor,  and,  throwing  the  skirt  of  my gown  over  my  head  for  a  cloak,  I  ran out.  I  turned  the  east  comer,  and there  a  black  shadow  fell  on  the snow;  but  when  I  came  again  into the  moonlight,  there  were  the  little footmarks  going  up — up  to  the  Fells. It  was  bitter  cold;  so  cold  that  the air  almost  took  the  skin  off  my  face as  I  ran;  but  I  ran  on,  crying  to think  how  my  poor  little  darling  must be  perished  and  frightened.  I  was within  sight  of  the  holly-trees,  when  I saw  a  shepherd  coming  down  the  hill, bearing  something  in  his  arms

WEIRD  TALES

wrapped  in  his  maud.  He  shouted to  me,  and  asked  me  if  I  had  lost  a bairn;  and,  when  I  could  not  speak for  crying,  he  bore  toward  me,  and  I saw  my  wee  bairnie,  lying  still,  and white,  and  stiff  in  his  arms,  as  if  she had  been  dead.  He  told  me  he  had been  up  the  Fells  to  gather  in  his sheep,  before  the  deep  cold  of  night came  on,  and  that  under  the  hollytrees  (black  marks  on  the  hillside, where  no  other  bush  was  for  miles around)  he  had  found  my  little  lady — my  lamb — my  queen — my  darling — stiff  and  cold  in  the  terrible  sleep which  is  frost-begotten.

Oh !  the  joy  and  the  tears  of  having her  in  my  arms  once  again!  for  I would  not  let  him  carry  her;  but took  her,  maud  and  all,  into  my  own arms,  and  held  her  near  my  own warm  neck  and  heart,  and  felt  the life  stealing  slowly  back  again  into her  little  gentle  limbs.  But  she  was still  insensible  when  we  reached  the hall,  and  I  had  no  breath  for  speech. We  went  in  by  the  kitchen  door.

“Bring  the  warming-pan,”  said  I; and  I  carried  her  upstairs,  and  began undressing  her  by  the  nursery  fire, which  Bessy  had  kept  up.  I  called my  little  lammie  all  the  sweet  and playful  names  I  could  think  of,— even  while  my  eyes  were  blinded  by my  tears;  and  at  last,  oh!  at  length she  opened  her  large  blue  eyes.  Then I  put  her  into  her  warm  bed,  and sent  Dorothy  down  to  tell  Miss Furnivall  that  all  was  well;  and  I made  up  my  mind  to  sit  by  my darling’s  bedside  the  livelong  night. She  fell  away  into  a  soft  sleep  as soon  as  her  pretty  head  had  touched the  pillow,  and  I  watched  by  her  till morning  light ;  when  she  wakened  up bright  and  clear — or  so  I  thought  at first — and,  my  dears,  so  I  think  now.

She  said,  that  she  had  fancied  that she  should  like  to  go  to  Dorothy,  for that  both  the  old  ladies  were  asleep, and  it  was  very  dull  in  the  drawing room;  and  that,  as  she  was  going

through  the  west  lobby,  she  saw  the snow  through  the  high  window  fall¬ ing — falling — soft  and  steady ;  but she  wanted  to  see  it  lying  pretty  and white  on  the  ground ;  so  she  made  her way  into  the  great  hall,  and  then, going  to  the  window,  she  saw  it  bright and  soft  upon  the  drive;  but  while she  stood  there,  she  saw  a  little  girl, not  so  old  as  she  was,  “but  so pretty,”  said  my  darling,  “and  this little  girl  beckoned  to  me  to  come out ;  and  oh,  she  was  so  pretty  and  so sweet,  I  could  not  choose  but  go.” And  then  this  other  little  girl  had taken  her  by  the  hand,  and  side  by side  the  two  had  gone  round  the  east corner.

“Now  you  are  a  naughty  little  girl, and  telling  stories,”  said  I.  “What would  your  good  mamma,  that  is  in heaven,  and  never  told  a  story  in  her life,  say  to  her  little  Rosamond,  if she  heard  her — and  I  dare  say  she does — telling  stories!”

“Indeed,  Hester,”  sobbed  out  my child,  “I’m  telling  you  true.  Indeed I  am.”

“Don’t  tell  me!”  said  I,  very stern.  “I  tracked  you  by  your  foot¬ marks  through  the  snow;  there  were only  yours  to  be  seen :  and  if  you  had had  a  little  girl  to  go  hand-in-hand with  you  up  the  hill,  don’t  you  think the  footprints  would  have  gone  along with  yours?”

“I  can’t  help  it,  dear,  dear  Hes¬ ter,”  said  she,  crying,  “if  they  did not;  I  never  looked  at  her  feet,  but she  held  my  hand  fast  and  tight  in her  little  one,  and  it  was  very,  very cold.  She  took  me  up  the  Fell-path, up  to  the  holly -trees;  and  there  I saw  a  lady  weeping  and  crying;  but when  she  saw  me,  she  hushed  her weeping,  and  smiled  very  proud  and grand,  and  took  me  on  her  knee,  and began  to  lull  me  to  sleep;  and  that’s all,  Hester— but  that  is  true ;  and  my dear  mamma  knows  it  is,”  said  she, crying.  So  I  thought  the  child  was in  a  fever,  and  pretended  to  believe

THE  OLD  NURSE’S  STORY


her,  as  she  went  over  her  story — over and  over  again,  and  always  the  same. At  last  Dorothy  knocked  at  the  door with  Miss  Rosamond ’s  breakfast ;  and she  told  me  the  old  ladies  were  down in  the  eating  parlor,  and  that  they wanted  to  speak  to  me.  They  had both  been  into  the  night-nursery  the evening  before,  but  it  was  after  Miss Rosamond  was  asleep;  so  they  had only  looked  at  her — not  asked  me  any questions.

“I  shall  catch  it,”  thought  I  to myself,  as  I  went  along  the  north gallery.  “And  yet,”  I  thought,  tak¬ ing  courage,  “it  was  in  their  charge I  left  her;  and  it’s  they  that’s  to blame  for  letting  her  steal  away  un¬ known  and  unwatched.,”  So  I  went in  boldly,  and  told  my  story.  I  told it  all  to  Miss  Fumivall,  shouting  it close  to  her  ear;  but  when  I  came  to mention  of  the  other  little  girl  out  in the  snow,  coaxing  and  tempting  her out,  and  wiling  her  up  to  the  grand and  beautiful  lady  by  the  holly-tree, she  threw  her  arms  up — her  old  and withered  arms — and  cried  aloud, “Oh!  Heaven  forgive!  Have mercy !  ’  ’

Mrs.  Stark  took  hold  of  her ;  rough¬ ly  enough,  I  thought;  but  she  was past  Mrs.  Stark’s  management,  and spoke  to  me,  in  a  kind  of  wild  warn¬ ing  and  authority.

“Hester;  keep  her  from  that  child! It  will  lure  her  to  her  death!  That evil  child!  Tell  her  it  is  a  wicked, naughty  child.”  Then,  Mrs.  Stark hurried  me  out  of  the  room;  where, indeed,  I  was  glad  enough  to  go;  but Miss  Furnivall  kept  shrieking  out, “Oh,  have  mercy!  Wilt  Thou  never forgive!  It  is  many  a  long  year ago - ”

T  was  very  uneasy  in  my  mind  after that.  I  durst  never  leave  Miss Rosamond,  night  or  day,  for  fear lest  she  might  slip  off  again,  after some  fancy  or  other ;  and  all  the more,  because  I  thought  I  could,  make

out  that  Miss  Furnivall  was  crazy, from  their  odd  ways  about  her;  and I  was  afraid  lest  something  of  the same  kind  (which  might  be  in  the family,  you  know)  hung  over  my darling.  And  the  great  frost  never ceased  all  this  time ;  and,  whenever  it was  a  more  stormy  night  than  usual, between  the  gusts,  and  through  the wind,  we  heard  the  old  lord  playing on  the  great  organ.  But,  old  lord,  or not,  wherever  Miss  Rosamond  went, there  I  followed ;  for  my  love  for  her, pretty,  helpless  orphan,  was  stronger than  my  fear  for  the  grand  and  ter¬ rible  sound.  Besides,  it  rested  with me  to  keep  her  cheerful  and  merry, as  beseemed  her  age.  So  we  played together,  and  wandered  together,  here and  there,  and  everywhere ;  for  I never  dared  to  lose  sight  of  her  again in  that  large  and  rambling 'house. And  so  it  happened,  that  one  after¬ noon,  not  long  before  Christmas  day, we  were  playing  together  on  the  bil¬ liard-table  in  the  great  hall  (not  that we  knew  the  right  way  of  playing, but  she  liked  to  roll  the  smooth  ivory balls  with  her  pretty  hands,  and  I liked  to  do  whatever  she  did) ;  and, by-and-by,  without  our  noticing  it,  it grew  dusk  indoors,  though  it  was light  in  the  open  air,  and  I  was  think¬ ing  of  taking  her  back  into  the  nur¬ sery,  when  all  of  a  sudden,  she  cried out -

“Look,  Hester!  look!  there  is  my poor  little  girl  out  in  the  snow!”

I  turned  toward  the  long  narrow windows,  and  there,  sure  enough,  I saw  a  little  girl,  less  than  my  Miss Rosamond — dressed  all  unfit  to  be out-of-doors  such  a  bitter  night — crying,  and  beating  against  the window-panes,  as  if  she  wanted  to  be let  in.  She  seemed  to  sob  and  wail, till  Miss  Rosamond  could  bear  it  no longer,  and  was  flying  to  the  door  to open  it,  when,  all  of  a  sudden,  and close  upon  us,  the  great  organ  pealed out  so  loud  and  thundering,  it  fairly made  me  tremble;  and  all  the  more,

WEIRD  TALES

when  I  remembered  that,  even  in  the stillness  of  that  dead-eold  weather,  I had  heard  no  sound  of  little  battering hands  upon  the  window-glass,  al¬ though  the  phantom  child  had  seemed to  put  forth  all  its  force ;  and, although  I  had  seen  it  wail  and  cry, no  faintest  touch  of  sound  had  fallen upon  my  ears.  Whether  I  remem¬ bered  all  this  at  the  very  moment,  I do  not  know;  the  great  organ  sound had  so  stunned  me  into  terror;  but this  I  know,  I  caught  up  Miss  Rosa¬ mond  before  she  got  the  hall-door opened,  and  clutched  her,  and  car¬ ried  her  away,  kicking  and  scream¬ ing,  into  the  large  bright  kitchen, where  Dorothy  and  Agnes  were  busy with  their  mince-pies.

“What  is  the  matter  with  my sweet  one?”  cried  Dorothy,  as  I  bore in  Miss  Rosamond,  who  was  sobbing as  if  her  heart  would  break.

“She  won’t  let  me  open  the  door for  my  little  girl  to  come  in;  and she’ll  die  if  she  is  out  on  the  Fells  all night.  Cruel,  naughty  Hester,”  she said,  slapping  me;  but  she  might have  struck  harder,  for  I  had  seen  a look  of  ghastly  terror  on  Dorothy’s face,  which  made  my  very  blood  run cold.

“Shut  the  back-kitchen  door  fast, and  bolt  it  well,”  said  she  to  Agnes. She  said  no  more ;  she  gave  me  raisins and  almonds  to  quiet  Miss  Rosa¬ mond  ;  but  she  sobbed  about  the  little girl  in  the  snow,  and  would  not  touch any  of  the  good  things.  I  was  thank¬ ful  when  she  cried  herself  to  sleep  in bed.  Then  I  stole  down  to  the kitchen,  and  told  Dorothy  I  had made  up  my  mind.  I  would  carry my  darling  back  to  my  father’s  house in  Applethwaite ;  where,  if  we  lived humbly,  we  lived  at  peace.  I  said  I had  been  frightened  enough  with  the old  lord’s  organ-playing;  but  now that  I  had  seen  for  myself  this  little moaning  child,  all  decked  out  as  no child  in  the  neighborhood  could  be, beating  and  battering  to  get  in,  yet

always  without  any  sound  or  noise — with  the  dark  wound  on  its  right shoulder;  and  that  Miss  Rosamond had  known  it  again  for  the  phantom that  had  nearly  lured  her  to  her death  (which  Dorothy  knew  was true) ;  I  could  stand  it  no  longer.

I  saw  Dorothy  change  color  once  or twice.  When  I  had  done,  she  told  me she  did  not  think  I  could  take  Miss Rosamond  with  me,  for  that  she  was my  lord’s  ward,  and  I  had  no  right over  her;  and  she  asked  me  would  I leave  the  child  that  I  was  so  fond  of just  for  sounds  and  sights  that  could do  me  no  harm ;  and  that  they  had  all had  to  get  used  to  in  their  turns?  I was  all  in  a  hot,  trembling  passion ; and  I  said  it  was  very  well  for  her  to talk,  that  knew  what  these  sights  and noises  betokened,  and  that  had,  per¬ haps,  had  something  to  do  with  the specter  child  while  it  was  alive.  And I  taunted  her  so,  that  she  told  me  all she  knew  at  last;  and  then  I  wished I  had  never  been  to*ld,  for  it  only made  me  more  afraid  than  ever.

She  said  she  had  heard  the  tale from  old  neighbors  that  were  alive when  she  was  first  married;  when folks  used  to  come  to  the  hall  some¬ times,  before  it  had  got  such  a  bad name  on  the  countryside;  it  might not  be  true,  or  it  might,  what  she  had been  told.

The  old  lord  was  Miss  Fumivall’s father — Miss  Grace,  as  Dorothy called  her,  for  Miss  Maude  was  the elder,  and  Miss  Fumivall  by  rights. The  old  lord  was  eaten  up  with  pride. Such  a  proud  man  was  never  seen  or heard  of ;  and  his  daughters  were  like him.  No  one  was  good  enough  to  wed them,  although  they  had  choice enough ;  for  they  were  the  great beauties  of  their  day,  as  I  had  seen  by their  portraits,  where  they  hung  in the  state  drawing  room.  But,  as  the old  saying  is,  “Pride  will  have a  fall;”  and  these  two  haughty beauties  fell  in  love  with  the  same man,  and  he  no  better  than  a  foreign

THE  OLD  NURSE’S  STORY


musician,  whom  their  father  had down  from  London  to  play  music with  him  at  the  Manor  House.  For above  all  things,  next  to  his  pride, the  old  lord  loved  music.  He  could play  on  nearly  every  instrument  that ever  was  heard  of;  and  it  was  a strange  thing  it  did  not  soften  him; but  he  was  a  fierce,  dour  old  man,  and had  broken  his  wife’s  heart  with  his cruelty,  they  said.  He  was  mad  after music,  and  would  pay  any  money  for it.  So  he  got  this  foreigner  to  come ; who  made  such  beautiful  music,  that they  said  the  very  birds  on  the  trees stopped  their  singing  to  listen.  And, by  degrees,  this  foreign  gentleman got  such  a  hold  over  the  old  lord, that  nothing  would  serve  him  but that  he  must  come  every  year ;  and  it was  he  that  had  the  great  organ brought  from  Holland,  and  built  up in  the  hall,  where  it  stood  now.  He taught  the  old  lord  to  play  on  it ;  but many  and  many  a  time,  when  Lord Fumivall  was  thinking  of  nothing but  his  fine  organ,  and  his  finer music,  the  dark  foreigner  was  walk¬ ing  abroad  in  the  woods  with  one  of the  young  ladies;  now  Miss  Maude, and  then  Miss  Grace.

Miss  Maude  won  the  day  and  car¬ ried  off  the  prize,  such  as  it  was ;  and he  and  she  were  married,  all  unknown to  anyone;  and,  before  he  made  his next  yearly  visit,  she  had  been  con¬ fined  of  a  little  girl  at  a  farmhouse on  the  Moors,  while  her  father  and Miss  Grace  thought  she  was  away  at Doncaster  Races.  But  though  she was  a  wife  and  a  mother,  she  was  not a  bit  softened,  but  as  haughty  and  as passionate  as  ever;  and  perhaps  more so,  for  she  was  jealous  of  Miss  Grace, to  whom  her  foreign  husband  paid  a deal  of  court — by  way  of  blinding her — as  he  told  his  wife.  But  Miss Grace  triumphed  over  Miss  Maude, and  Miss  Maude  grew  fiercer  and fiercer,  both  with  her  husband  and with  her  sister ;  and  the  former — who could  easily  shake  off  what  was  dis¬

agreeable,  and  hide  himself  in  for¬ eign  countries — went  away  a  month before  his  usual  time  that  summer, and  half  threatened  that  he  would never  come  back  again.

Meanwhile,  the  little  girl  was  left at  the  farmhouse,  and  her  mother used  to  have  her  horse  saddled  and gallop  wildly  over  the  hills  to  see  her once  every  week,  at  the  very  least; for  where  she  loved  she  loved,  and where  she  hated  she  hated.  And  the old  lord  went  on  playing — playing  on his  organ;  and  the  servants  thought the  sweet  music  he  made  had  soothed down  his  awful  temper,  of  which (Dorothy  said)  some  terrible  tales could  be  told.  He  grew  infirm  too, and  had  to  walk  with  a  crutch;  and his  son — that  was  the  present  Lord Fumivall’s  father — was  with  the army  in  America,  and  the  other  son at  sea:  so  Miss  Maude  had  it  pretty much  her  own  way,  and  she  and  Miss Grace  grew  colder  and  bitterer  to each  other  every  day ;  till  at  last  they hardly  ever  spoke,  except  when  the old  lord  was  by.

The  foreign  musician  came  again the  next  summer,  but  it  was  for  the last  time ;  for  they  led  him  such  a  life with  their  jealousy  and  their  pas¬ sions,  that  he  grew  weary,  and  went away,  and  never  was  heard  of  again. And  Miss  Maude,  who  had  always meant  to  have  her  marriage  acknowl¬ edged  when  her  father  should  be dead,  was  left  now  a  deserted  wife, whom  nobody  knew  to  have  been married,  with  a  child  that  she  dared not  own,  although  she  loved  it  to  dis¬ traction;  living  with  a  father  whom she  feared,  and  a  sister  whom  she hated.

When  the  next  summer  passed over,  and  the  dark  foreigner  never came,  both  Miss  Maude  and  Miss Grace  grew  gloomy  and  sad;  they had  a  haggard  look  about  them, though  they  looked  handsome  as  ever. But,  by-and-by,  Miss  Maude  bright¬ ened;  for  her  father  grew  more  and


WEIRD  TALES

more  infirm,  and  more  than  ever  car¬ ried  away  by  his  music ;  and  she  and Miss  Graee  lived  almost  entirely apart,  having  separate  rooms,  the one  on  the  west  side,  Miss  Maude  on the  east — those  very  rooms  which were  now  shut  up.  So  she  thought she  might  have  her  little  girl  with her,  and  no  one  need  ever  know  ex¬ cept  those  who  dared  not  speak  about it,  and  were  bound  to  believe  that  it was,  as  she  said,  a  cottager’s  child she  had  taken  a  fancy  to.  All  this, Dorothy  said,  was  pretty  well  known ; but  what  came  afterward  no  one knew,  except  Miss  Grace  and  Mrs. Stark,  who  was  even  then  her  maid, and  much  more  of  a  friend  to  her than  ever  her  sister  had  been.  But the  servants  supposed,  from  words that  were  dropped,  that  Miss  Maude had  triumphed  over  Miss  Grace,  and told  her  that  all  the  time  the  dark foreigner  had  been  mocking  her  with pretended  love — he  was  her  own  hus¬ band.  The  color  left  Miss  Grace’s cheek  and  lips  that  very  day  forever, and  she  was  heard  to  say  many  a  time that  sooner  or  later  she  would  have her  revenge ;  and  Mrs.  Stark  was  for¬ ever  spying  about  the  east  rooms.

/~\ne  fearful  night,  just  after  the New  Year  had  come  in,  when the  snow  was  lying  thick  and  deep, and  the  flakes  were  still  falling — fast enough  to  blind  anyone  who  might be  out  and  abroad — there  was  a  great and  violent  noise  heard,  and  the  old lord’s  voice  above  all,  cursing  and swearing  awfully,  and  the  cries  of  a little  child,  and  the  proud"  defiance  of a  fierce  woman,  and  the  sound  of  a blow,  and  a  dead  stillness,  and  moans and  wailings,  dying  away  on  the  hill¬ side!

Then  the  old  lord  summoned  all  his servants,  and  told  them,  with  terrible oaths,  and  words  more  terrible,  that his  daughter  had  disgraced  herself, and  that  he  had  turned  her  out  of doors — her,  and  her  child — and  that

if  ever  they  gave  her  help,  or  food,  or shelter,  he  prayed  that  they  might never  enter  heaven.  And,  all  the while,  Miss  Grace  stood  by  him,  white and  still  as  any  stone;  and,  when  he had  ended,  she  heaved  a  great  sigh, as  much  as  to  say  her  work  was  done, and  her  end  was  accomplished.  But the  old  lord  never  touched  his  organ again,  and  died  within  the  year;  and no  wonder!  for,  on  the  morrow  of that  wild  and  fearful  night,  the  shep¬ herds,  coming  down  the  Fell  side, found  Miss  Maude  sitting,  all  crazy and  smiling,  under  the  holly  trees, nursing  a  dead  child,  with  a  terrible mark  on  its  right  shoulder.  “But that  was  not  what  killed  it,”  said Dorothy:  “it  was  the  frost  and  the cold.  livery  wild  creature  was  in  its hole,  and  every  beast  in  its  fold, while  the  child  and  its  mother  were turned  out  to  wander  on  the  Fell! And  now  you  know  all !  and  I  wonder if  you  are  less  frightened  now !  ’  ’

I  was  more  frightened  than  ever; but  I  said  I  was  not.  I  wished  Miss Rosamond  and  myself  well  out  of that  dreadful  house  forever;  but  I would  not  leave  her,  and  I  dared  not take  her  away.  But  oh,  how  I watched  her,  and  guarded  her!  We bolted  the  doors,  and  shut  the  win¬ dow-shutters  fast,  an  hour  or  more before  dark,  rather  than  leave  them open  five  minutes  too  late.  But  my little  lady  still  heard  the  weird  child erying  and  moaning;  and  not  all  we could  do  or  say  could  keep  her  from wanting  to  go  to  her,  and  let  her  in from  the  cruel  wind  and  the  snow.

All  this  time  I  kept  away  from  Miss Fumivall  and  Mrs.  Stark,  as  much  as ever  I  could;  for  I  feared  them — I knew  no  good  could  be  about  them, with  their  gray,  hard  faces,  and  their dreamy  eyes,  looking  back  into  the ghastly  years  that  were  gone.  But, even  in  my  fear,  I  had  a  kind  of  pity for  Miss  Fumivall,  at  least.  Those gone  down  to  the  pit  can  hardly  have a  more  hopeless  look  than  that  which

THE  OLD  NURSE'S  STORY

was  ever  on  her  face.  At  last  I  even got  so  sorry  for  her — who  never  said a  word  but  what  was  quite  forced from  her — that  I  prayed  for  her ;  and I  taught  Miss  Rosamond  to  pray  for one  who  had  done  a  deadly  sin ;  but often  when  she  came  to  these  words, she  would  listen,  and  start  up  from her  knees,  and  say,  ‘  ‘  I  hear  ray  little girl  plaining  and  erying,  very  sad, — oh,  let  her  in,  or  she  will  die !  ”

One  night, — just  after  New  Year’s Day  had  come  at  last,  and  the  long winter  had  taken  a  turn,  as  I  hoped — I  heard  the  west  drawing  room  bell ring  three  times,  which  was  the  signal for  me.  I  would  not  leave  Miss  Rosa¬ mond  alone,  for  all  she  was  asleep — for  the  old  lord  had  been  playing wilder  than  ever — and  I  feared  lest my  darling  should  waken  to  hear  the speeter  child;  see  her  I  knew  she could  not.  I  had  fastened  the  win¬ dows  too  well  for  that.  So  I  took  her out  of  her  bed,  and  wrapped  her  up in  such  outer  clothes  as  were  most handy,  and  carried  her  down  to  the drawing  room,  where  the  old  ladies sat  at  their  tapestry-work  as  usual. They  looked  up  when  I  came  in,  and Mrs.  Stark  asked,  quite  astounded, “Why  did  I  bring  Miss  Rosamond there,  out  of  her  warm  bed?”  I  had begun  to  whisper,  “Because  I  was afraid  of  her  being  tempted  out  while I  was  away,  by  the  wild  child  in  the snow,”  when  she  stopped  me  short (with  a  glance  at  Miss  Fumivall), and  said  Miss  Fumivall  wanted  me  to undo  some  work  die  had  done  wrong, and  which  neither  of  them  could  see to  unpick.  So  I  laid  my  pretty  dear on  the  sofa,  and  sat  down  on  a  stool by  them,  and  hardened  -my  heart against  them,  as  I  heard  the  wind rising  and  howling.

Miss  Rosamond  slept  on  sound,  for all  the  wind  blew  so ;  and  Mias Fumivall  said  never  a  word,  nor looked  around  when  the  gusts  shook the  windows.  All  at  once  she  started

up  to  her  full  height,  and  put  up  one hand,  as  if  to  bid  us  listen.

“I  hear  voices!”  said  she.  “I  hear terrible  screams — I  hear  my  father’s voice !  ’  ’

Just  at  that  moment  my  darling wakened  with  a  sudden  start:  “My little  girl  is  crying,  oh,  how  she  is crying!”  and  she  tried  to  get  up  and go  to  her,  but  she  got  her  feet  en¬ tangled  in  the  blanket,  and  I  caught her  up;  for  my  flesh  had  begun  to creep  at  these  noises,  which  they heard  while  we  could  catch  no  sound. In  a  minute  or  two  the  noises  came, and  gathered  fast,  and  filled  our  ears ; we,  too,  heard  voiees  and  screams, and  no  longer  heard  the  winter’s wind  that  raged  abroad.  Mrs.  Stark looked  at  me,  and  I  at  her,  blit  we dared  not  speak.

Suddenly  Miss  Fumivall  went  to¬ ward  the  door,  out  into  the  anteroem, through  the  west  lobby,  and  opened the  door  into  the  great  hall.  Mrs. Stark  followed,  and  I  durst  not  be left,  though  my  heart  almost  stopped beating  for  fear.  I  wrapped  my darling  tight  in  my  arms,  and  went out  with  them.  In  the  hall  the screams  were  louder  than  ever;  they seemed  to  eome  from  the  east  wing — nearer  and  nearer — close  on  the  other side  of  the  locked-up  doors — close  be¬ hind  them.  Then  I  noticed  that  the great  bronze  chandelier  seemed  all alight,  though  the  hall  was  dim,  and that  a  fire  was  blazing  in  the  vast hearth-plaee,  though  it  gave  no  heat ; and  I  shuddered  up  with  terror,  and folded  my  darling  eleser  to  me.  But as  I  did  so  the  east  door  shook,  and she,  suddenly  struggling  to  get  free from  me,  cried,  “Hester!  I  must  go. My  little  girl  is  there!  I  hear  her; she  is  coming!  Hester,  I  must  go!”

I  held  her  tight  with  all  my strength;  with  a  set  will,  I  held  her. If  I  had  died,  my  hands  would  have grasped  her  still,  I  was  so  resolved  in my  mind.  Miss  Fumivall  stood  lis¬ tening,  and  paid  no  regard  to  my


WEIBD  TALES

darling,  who  had  got  down  to  the ground,  and  whom  I,  upon  my  knees now,  was  holding  with  both  my  arms clasped  round  her  neck;  she  still striving  and  crying  to  get  free.

All  at  once,  the  east  door  gave  way with  a  thundering  crash,  as  if  torn open  in  a  violent  passion,  and  there came  into  that  broad  and  mysterious light  the  figure  of  a  tall  old  man, with  gray  hair  and  gleaming  eyes. He  drove  before  him,  with  many  a  re¬ lentless  gesture  of  abhorrence,  a  stern and  beautiful  woman,  with  a  little child  clinging  to  her  dress.

“0  Hester!  Hester!”  cried  Miss Rosamond;  ‘‘it’s  the  lady!  the  lady below  the  holly-trees;  and  my  little girl  is  with  her.  Hester!  Hester!  let me  go  to  her ;  they  are  drawing  me  to them.  I  feel  them — I  feel  them.  I must  go!”

Again  she  wTas  almost  convulsed  by her  efforts  to  get  away;  but  I  held her  tighter  and  tighter,  till  I  feared  I should  do  her  a  hurt ;  but  rather  that than  let  her  go  toward  those  terrible phantoms.  They  passed  along  towrard the  great  hall-door,  where  the  winds howled  and  ravened  for  their  prey; but  before  they  reached  that,  the  lady turned;  and  I  could  see  that  she  de¬ fied  the  old  man  with  a  fierce  and proud  defiance;  but  then  she  quailed — and  then  she  threw  up  her  arms wildly  and  piteously  to  save  her  child — her  little  child — from  a  blow  from his  uplifted  crutch.

And  Miss  Rosamond  was  tom  as  by a  power  stronger  than  mine,  and writhed  in  my  arms,  and  sobbed  (for by  this  time  the  poor  darling  was growing  faint).

“They  want  me  to  go  with  them  on to  the  Fells — they  are  drawing  me  to

them.  Oh,  my  little  girl!  I  would come,  but  cruel,  wicked  Hester  holds me  very  tight.”  But  when  she  saw the  uplifted  crutch,  she  swooned away,  and  I  thanked  God  for  it.  Just at  this  moment — when  the  tall  old man,  his  hair  streaming  as  in  the blast  of  a  furnace,  was  going  to  strike the  little  shrinking  child — Miss Fumivall,  the  old  woman  by  my  side, cried  out,  “0  father!  father!  spare the  little  innocent  child!”  But  just then  I  saw — we.  all  saw — another phantom  shape  itself,  and  grow  clear out  of  the  blue  and  misty  light  that filled  the  hall;  we  had  not  seen  her till  now,  for  it  was  another  lady  who stood  by  the  old  man,  with  a  look  of relentless  hate  and  triumphant  scorn. That  figure  was  very  beautiful  to look  upon,  with  a  soft,  white  hat drawn  down  over  the  proud  brows, and  a  red  and  curling  lip.  It  was dressed  in  an  open  robe  of  blue  satin. I  had  seen  that  figure  before.  It  was the  likeness  of  Miss  Furnivall  in  her youth ;  and  the  terrible  phantoms moved  on,  regardless  of  old  Miss Fumivall ’s  wild  entreaty, — and  the uplifted  crutch  fell  on  the  right shoulder  of  the  little  child,  and  the younger  sister  looked  on,  stony,  and deadly  serene.  But  at  that  moment, the  dim  lights,  and  the  fire  that  gave no  heat,  went  out  of  themselves,  and Miss  Fumivall  lay  at  our  feet stricken  down  by  the  palsy — deathstricken.

Yes!  she  was  carried  to  her  bed that  night,  never  to  rise  again.  She lay  with  her  face  to  the  wall,  mutter¬ ing  low,  but  muttering  always : “Alas!  alas!  what  is  done  in  youth can  never  be  undone  in  age!  What is  done  in  youth  can  never  be  undone in  age!”

“ — —

WEIRD  TALES


The  Eyrie

( Continued  from  page  438)

three  X’s  excellent;  four  X’s  better  yet;  five  X’s  excellence  raised  to  the  Nth power.  Well,  The  Curse  of  Everard  Maundy  got  the  five  X’s,  as  did  A  Suitor From  the  Shades.  Greye  La  Spina’s  serial,  Fettered,  gets  the  five  X’s  also. I  noticed  in  The  Eyrie  a  criticism  of  it  which  called  it  silly  because  the  cat jumped  over  the  corpse  and  made  a  vampire.  Not  at  all.  Ten  thousand  cats could  jump  over  ten  thousand  cadavers  and  not  affect  them  at  all,  but  one who  in  life  was-  affected  with  the  vampire  curse  needed  that  artistic  leap  and nothing  more  to  bring  it  to  life  as  a  ghoul.  I  think  maybe  I  had  better  mark Fettered  with  even  six  X’s  instead  of  five,  thus:  XXXXXX.  Poe,  Wells  and Stoker  combined  could  not  have  written  a  better  story.  ’  ’

“Just  had  to  write  you  a  few  lines  and  congratulate  you  on  your  new serial.  The  Dark  Chrysalis,”  writes  W.  A.  B.,  of  Indianapolis.  “I  have  just finished  reading  it,  and  it  held  me  spellbound  to  the  end.  Eli  Colter  is  a  won¬ derful  author ;  please  give  us  more  stories  by  him.  ’  ’

“The  reprints  charm  me  much,”  writes  Allen  Julian  Weil,  of  Alexandria, Louisiana,  “but  I  suggest  that  instead  of  reprinting  old  authors,  you  reprint from  former  Weird  Tales.  I  like  to  have  all  kinds  of  weird  tales  in  the  maga¬ zine,  from  ghost  to  scientific  stories.  ’  ’

Readers,  what  is  your  favorite  story  in  this  issue?  It  will  help  us  to keep  the  magazine  in  accordance  with  your  wishes  if  you  will  let  us  know what  kind  of  stories  you  like  best.  Your  favorite  stories  in  the  August  issue, as  shown  by  your  votes,  are  The  Man  With  a  Thousand  Legs,  by  Frank  Bel¬ knap  Long,  Jr.,  and  Satan’s  Fiddle,  by  George  Maleolm-Smith.

MY  FAVORITE  STORIES  IN  THE  OCTOBER  WEIRD  TALES ARE:

Story  Remarks

(1) -

(2) - - -

(3) - -

I  do  not  like  the

(1) -

(2) -

It  will  help  us  to  know  what  kind  of stories  you  want  in  Weird  Tales  if  you will  fill  out  this  coupon  and  mail  it  to The  Eyrie,  Weird  Tales,  450  E.  Ohio  St, Chicago,  Ill.

following  stories: Why?  _

Reader’s  name  and  address:


WEIRD  TALES

The  Time-Raider

(Continued  from  page  480)

him.  An  odd,  calculating  light  leaped into  his  eyes.  “You  are  not  of  the guards,”  he  said,  half-musingly, “and  you  say  you  are  not  of  the  pit.

But  if  you  came  from  outside - ”

“I  was  captured,”  I  told  him, “outside  the  city,  and  brought  here. But  why?”

“You’re  here  to  fight,”  he  said, shortly,  and  I  started.

“Fight!  With  whom?”

“Why,  with  these,”  he  answered, indicating  again  the  score  of  men  in

the  room.  “This  is - ”

Before  he  could  finish  the  sentence, there  was  a  sudden  clanging  of  metal and  the  door  of  the  room  swung open.  A  guard  stepped  in  and  gave brief  orders  in  his  own  tongue.  At once  the  men  around  me  began  to file  out  of  the  room,  into  the  corri¬ dor.  As  I  passed  out,  beside  my new-found  friend,  I  saw  that  in  the hall  a  heavy  force  of  the  guards awaited  us,  some  fifty  men  being ranged  along  its  length.  We  passed together  dowui  the  corridor’s  length, but  instead  of  leaving  the  building by  the  door  I  had  entered,  we  turned to  the  right  and  proceeded  up  a  long flight  of  steps,  the  guards  following

and  preceding  us,  in  two  separate companies.

As  we  went  up  those  steps,  I  turned to  my  companion  and  asked  him, “You  are  English,  aren’t  you?”

He  nodded,  and  made  a  graceful half-bow.  “Viscount  Charles  Den¬ ham,  at  your  service,”  he  said  in  a low  voice,  “captain  in  the  armies  of his  Majesty,  King  George  the  Third.  ’  ’

The  words  were  like  a  thunderclap in  my  ears.  A  soldier  of  King George  the  Third?  A  man  of  a hundred  and  fifty  years  before  my own  time?  And  here,  fifteen  thou¬ sand  years  in  the  future,  in  this strange  city!  And  these  other  pris¬ oners,  these  strange,  ragged  figures !

But  before  I  could  collect  my  dazed thoughts,  our  company  was  march¬ ing  up  the  last  few  steps.  Over  the shoulders  of  those  in  front  of  me  I saw  the  walls  of  a  great  room,  and the  crimson  light  of  the  glowing  bulbs that  illuminated  it.  There  was  a sound  of  crystal  music,  and  laughter — a  high,  ringing  laughter  that  was very  different  from  the  coarse  mirth of  the  guards.  Then  we  were  sur¬ mounting  the  very  last  steps,  march¬ ing  up  and  over  them.  .  .  .

The  horrors  of  the  City  of  the  Pit ,  the  lair  of  the  Raider ,  and  the dead  who  were  brought  back  to  life ,  are  thrillingly described  in  next  month's  chapters of  this  story

WEIRD  TALES


The  Dark  Lore

(Continued  from  page  458)

therest  spheres  would  shed  tears  of unavailing  sorrow  over  its  wo !

But  the  refrain  of  that  chant terminated  with:

“Sister,  Sister,  Sister,  Sister,

Sister,  Sister,  ha-ha -hah!”

That  word — “Sister!”  What stirred  within  me?  It  shook  me,  not at  all  pleasantly,  nor  evilly.  Rather it  was  agonizingly,  mournfully  sad¬ dening.  Again !  Sister!

Rose  an  inward  vision,  fleeting, lasting  but  a  brief  moment,  of  a  pale, white  face ;  clear  blue  eyes ;  soft, tenderly  smiling  mouth ;  a  small, gracefully  poised  head  surmounted by  sunny,  golden,  wavy  locks  .  .  . Sister!

Something  swelled  within  my burning  breast  until  I  deemed  it would  burst  asunder  from  the  in¬ ternal  pressure.  I  stopped  swirling and  ceased  from  participation  in  that song — a — a — something  —  rose  —  in my — throat — it — it  sounded  like — “glub!”  .  .  .  forgive  me,  but  it  can not  be  expressed  in  any  other  way !

Something,  not  burning  but  scald¬ ing,  gathered  in  each  of  my  six  eyes and  ran  adown  my  three  faces!  I — I — whispered :

“My  little  sister  knows  naught,  in her  spotless  innocence,  of  such  fright¬ ful  things  as  do  I  in  my  sin.  Thank — God — she  is — spared  ...”

A  howl  of  rage  arose — a  chorus  of hate  voiced  from  every  fiery  throat of  that  most  abhorrent,  malignant band.

“She  weeps!  Has  dared  whisper the  name  forbidden  in  all  these realms !  ’  ’

As  one  they  hurled  themselves upon  me,  clawing,  kicking,  biting, gouging,  tearing,  rending  me  apart, limb  from  limb,  ripping  me  into shreds — oh  anguish  untellable,  un¬

thinkable — my  last  conscious  idea. . .

“Oh,  that  I  were  where — naught — was — but — myself.  .  .”

I  was  nothing  but  Spirit;  all  trace of  form  had  vanished,  and  but  a dingy  spark  was  hurtling  through Space!  -It  was  so  black,  so  black, above,  and  below,  and  ahead  of  me; but  yet  it  was  not  that  Great  Black¬ ness  wherein  I  had  so  long  sojourned. Naught  but  a  Spark  was  I,  soulless, only  remained  to  me  the  Spirit;  the ever-living  Spark  from  the  Eternal, Ineffable  Flame.  Yet  still  was  I  con¬ scious  of  identity  and  remembered all  the  torments  through  which  I  had passed  since  Hesperus  had  bestowed me  upon  Grarhorg.  .  .

Away  and  away  ahead  of  me  I “saw”  a  tiny  point  of  light.  After flight  lasting  for  a  few  more  ages  I knew  it  for  a — star!  Back  in  the known  universe  once  again!  Until the  skies  were  ablaze  with  myriad lights  that  were  not — hell-lights!

On  and  on,  past  planets  and  suns and  constellations,  galaxies  and  neb¬ ulae  and  asteroids ;  into,  through,  and beyond  the  great  solar  system  hurtled that  Spirit-Spark  that  was  I.  Until, finally,  at  the  furtherest  limits  of  the universe,  my  Spark  hovered,  swooped, and  settled  on  a  little  whirling  globe.

It  was  a  dull,  barren,  burned-out world.  A  world  devoid  of  vegeta¬ tion,  lacking  in  moisture,  without heat,  and  weak  of  illumination.  A globe  that  once  had  been  a  fair planet,  eons  and  eons  ago — but  which was  now  but  gray,  harsh  rock,  and sad  white  ashes,  and  blackened, scoriated  lava-beds.

And  then  I  noted  a  strange  thing. At  the  time  I  did  not  understand how  it  had  happened  nor  why  it  was necessary.  Although  now  I  know


WEIRD  TALES

that  no  matter  where  in  all  the  infin¬ itude  of  Space  the  Spirit  may  be ;  by operation  of  a  natural  law  it promptly  attracts  to  itself — or sloughs  off  from  itself — matter,  or atoms,  until  it  is  covered  by  an  en¬ velope,  a  proper  vehicle  through  and in  which  to  function  to  its  best  ad¬ vantage  within  such  environment  as it  has  attained  to.

All  I  did  know  then,  was  that  I  had in  some  manner  accumulated  a  tenu¬ ous  body.  And  I  did  not  want  that form.  Formless,  I  had  little  to  fear save  extinction  of  that  spark  which was  my  “Self”.  And  that  same  ex¬ tinction  was  naught  to  be  feared  by such  as  I,  but  was  rather  a  hope ;  for annihilation  would  be  a  boon ;  a wondrous  rest;  a  perpetual  cessation of  consciousness,  identity,  and — worst  torment  of  all — the  ending  of memory.

For  that  faculty  of  “memory”, abiding  when  all  else  is  stripped  from the  sinful  Spirit,  constitutes  the truest  and  most  terrible  torment;  is, in  itself,  the  greatest  hell!  A  hell from  which  none  may  escape,  though they  flee  to  the  outermost  star;  yet will  such  a  spirit  bear  along  its  own peculiar  hell,  for  that  hell  has  become an  integral  part  of  the  Self  who evolved  it.  Nor  is  absolute  extinction

But  I  knew  that,  once  I  were  again possessed  of  a  definite  form,  tenuous though  it  might  be,  and  were  on  a tangible  world,  there  was  no  guess¬ ing  what  new  and  very  terrible  tor¬ ments  were  in  store  for  me.  Doubt¬ less,  however,  tortures  afresh  of some  sort  there  would  surely  be. And  I  was  so  wearied  of  agonies  and horrors  inflicted.

“What  had  I  done  to  de¬ serve - ?”

And  then  and  there  hell  let  loose!

Such  hell  as  never  yet  had  I  un¬ dergone.  Pictures,  thrown  outward from  the  seat  of  memory ;  taking  vis¬ ibility  at  a  little  distance,  against  the

curtain  of  that  dull  air.  Sounds, emanating  primarily  in  my  conscious¬ ness,  impinging  upon  that  same heavy  air;  echoed  and  thrown  back again  to  my  outward  hearing;  to penetrate  in  turn  deeply  into  con¬ sciousness  once  more,  laden  with stinging  anguish  worse,  far  worse, than  any  virus  instilled  into  my  sys¬ tem  by  kiss  of  Flaming  Furies  or stroke  of  serpent-hair  from  Flaming Furies’  tripled  heads.

All  I  had  thought,  said,  or  heard, or  did,  or  desired!  Not  one  infin¬ itesimal  thing,  however  trivial,  but what,  with  merciless  exactitude,  I was  obliged  to  witness.  I  tried  cov¬ ering  eyes  and  ears  with  my  hands. And  to  no  avail.  Too  tenuous!  So thin  I  must,  perforce,  look  through all  attempts  at  self-blindness  and see,  and  hear.  . ..

And  again  and  again,  repeated, circumstance  by  circumstance;  epi¬ sode  followed  by  episode.  On  earth, from  childhood  to  maturity — from evocation  of  the  Dark  Angel  Hes¬ perus  to  my  present  isolate  estate. And  repeated  yet  again!

“What  had  I  done  to  de¬ serve - ?”

That  which  I  had  done  deserved ten  thousand  fold  .  .  .  !

And  that  denunciation  came  from no  god,  nor  angel,  nor  demon,  but from — within!  It  was  the  fiat  of  that last  great  judge,  my  Self,  whose  sen¬ tence,  though  long  delayed,  is  inex¬ orable!  For  it  is  very  just.

The  sole  moisture  that  bumed-out world  had  known  for  countless  ages past  burst  from  my  eyes  in  ineffect¬ ual  tears.  Whence  the  moisture  came I  can  not  explain.  Do  I  know  the Universal  Laws?  Nay,  hardly  do  I know  myself — except  as  very  sinful, very  vile,  immeasurably  fallen,  and, were  it  not  for  the  Ultimate  Mercy, as  one  lost  beyond  all  hope  of redemption.

Gradually  the  fountain  of  my  tears (Continued  on  page  572)

WEIRD  TALES


Send  for  it

NOW

Y  One  of  the  ^

World’s Highest  Paid

This  FREE  Book

-tells  the  whole  story

Let  Us  Help  _

You  to  a  Handsome  Salary

&ad  eventually  into  a  big  paying  highly  respected  business  of  your  own.  Advertiw'  *- easy  to  learn— it  isn  t  like  law,  or  medicine  or  engineering.  No  long  formulas  to  me “*  no  heavy  mathematics  to  wade  through.  Every  principle  of  Advertising  mi learned  m  vourown  Lome,  if  you  are  employed  you  can  go  right  on  with  your  pr<

A  Position  Like One  oS  These Awaits  You

Many  of  them  pay

$5,000  to  $25,000 a  Year

In  a  few  short  months  you  can  qualify lo'  fracticallv^y^ncfof  .dv.m,ine

Ordinary,  Common  School  Education  la All  You  Need  to  Master  Advertising

high  school,  let  alone  college.  There  are  very  lew  Advertising  positions  that  require

rhr:4“io“r;^

the  highest  paid  and  most  Peasant  ol  all  professions.  Our  new  book  "Increased  Salaries

and  Promotion  is  lull  of  helpful  ideas.  It  tells  you  exactly  how  to  get  intr  L  ■ - J  “

iul  work.  Send  lor  it  today.  Remember  this  is  a  school  that  guarantees

Satisfaction  or  Money  Back

When  you  enroll  with  Page-Davis  School  of  Advertising “  "  ; — 1  r';J — 1 - -he  completed

ADVERTISING  MANAGER MAIL  ORDER  SPECIALIST LAYOUT  MAN AGENCY  EXECUTIVE DIRECT-BY-MAIL  MAN PUBLICITY  DIRECTOR PRODUCTION  MANAGER All  With  Good  Pay

You  want  one  oto rth  these  Jobs— ACTS

f  placing  ill  tl -

.  .  .  u.  Send  ior  this  great  book  today-FREE.

jsram « -

PACE- DAVIS

SCHOOL  of  ADVERTISINGThe  Real  Bi$*  Money  Coupon  !

PAGE-DAVIS  SCHOOL  OF  ADVERTISING

Dept.  2456  »*M  •.  Michigan  Are.,  Chicago,  U.S.A*

~  id  me  your  Book  which  tells  how  I  can  qualify

in  Advertising  A - 11  J -

Lfearn .

/advertising  home

advertisement#


WEIRD  TALES

(Continued  from  page  570)

dried  up.  No  moisture  left  where¬ with  to  weep.  Yet  the  haunting, torturing  fantasmagoria  continued.  I could  no  more  bear  it,  despite  my  in¬ nate  conviction  that  it  was  all  fully merited.

I  rose  to  my  feet  and  realized  as  I rose  that  I  was  become  still  more thick.  Had,  in  fact,  a  body  nearly as  solid  as  I  had  possessed  while  in the  halls  of  Hesperus.  A  lingering trace  of  self-pity  told  me  that  if  I walked,  and  walked,  and  walked, fatigue  would  eventually  assert  it¬ self;  and  I  knew  that  a  tired  con¬ sciousness  receives  but  poorly  any extraneous  impressions.

Why,  I  thought  to  myself,  I  might even  sleep!  Which  was  a  thing  I’d not  done  since  first  I  gave  myself over  to  the  will  of  Hesperus.  Not  in all  the  many  hells  has  ever  one  lost spirit  slept!  My  idea  was  good.  I wandered  until  my  feet  ached  and my  limbs  ached,  while  every  part  of me  reveled  in  pain  that  was  for  once wholly  physical.

Until,  finally,  exhausted,  I  laid  me down  by  the  side  of  a  great  rock,  on a  soft  bed  of  ashes,  and  then — at  last, I  slept.  And  it  was  but  a  terrific nightmare,  compounded  of  all  the past  experiences  I  had  endured;  but by  no  means  in  any  sort  of  conceiv¬ able  sequence.  Rather,  it  was  a jumble  worse  than  the  actual  events. And  awoke,  weeping  anew;  awoke  to the  realization  that  I  was  even thicker,  was  as  solid  as  though  I  still dwelt  upon  my  native  planet.

Like  a  child  I  sought  to  wipe  my streaming  eyes  on  the  sleeve  of  my robe,  and  saw,  to  my  amazement,  that the  tears  I  was  shedding  were  of blood.  And  then  the  fantasmagoria of  my  sins  and  sufferings  recom¬ menced  in  merciless  detail.  And  still those  tears  flowed.  Tears  of  hopeless anguish.  Tears  of  impotent  weari¬ ness.  Could  I  never  be  freed  from the  torment  of  my  deeds?

“Oh,  that  I  were  back  upon  earth in  the  most  hideous  body  ever  be¬ held  !  I  would  be  so — so — g — g — good ! ’  ’

Came  a  flash  of  rose  and  gold  more beauteous  than  earth’s  fairest  dawnrise.  Before  me  there  stood,  stately, serene -

I  leaped  to  my  feet.  Shrieking  in terror  I  turned  to  flee.

“Stay!”

Those  tones  so  commanding,  yet  so — gentle.  In  desperation  I  faced about.  Although  within  me  I  was sick  with  a  ghastly  fear.

“Thou  art  a  demon — well  do  I know  thy  sort!  What  torment  hast thou  in  store  for  lost  me?  Let  it  be¬ gin,  swiftly!  Since  needs  must,  I can  endure.  .

Never  a  word  that  radiant  one spoke,  but  the  light  shining  all  about It  became  brighter,  more  glorious; and  the  pity  I  read  on  that  serene countenance -

Awe-stricken  I  sank  to  my  knees: “Thou  art  one  of  the  Celestials,  a — Helper  of  the  Lost?  Forgive.  .  .”

“Poor,  sorrow-laden  child!”

I  looked  up  into  that  countenance. I  was  well-nigh  incredulous ;  finding it  hard  to  realize  that  for  such  as  I there  was  pity.  But  what  I  saw  was unmistakable — and  then,  I  did  weep.

“Thou  wouldst  return  to  earth, hideous  where  formerly  thou  wert beautiful — why  ?  ’  ’

“Can  you  ask?”  I  sobbed.  “To escape — this!”,— I  meant  that  haunt¬ ing  fantasmagoria.

“For  that  reason?”

“Aye!”

The  Shining  Helper  vanished.

After  prolonged  grieving  I  knew my  fault.  And  while  I  grieved, still  the  fantasmagoria  continued, hammering  home  the  lesson  I  was slowly  commencing  to  assimilate. For  now  I  knew  that  each  past  agony

WEIRD  TALES


had  but  counterbalanced  some  evil deed,  some  wicked  thought.  .  .

Yet  it  was  a  long  while  after  I  be¬ gan  to  comprehend  ere  that  Helper came  the  second  time  to  where  I  sat in  self-loathing  inexpressible.  Bold¬ ly,  with  the  courage  of  the  hopeless, than  wrhich  is  no  greater  desperation possible,  I  said:

“Earth  I  shall  never  behold  again. That  I  know,  for  such  were  too  great mercy  for  me.  But  were  I  only worthy,  one  boon  alone  would  I ask - ”

“I  listen.”

“Is  there  not  some  borderland wherefrom  I  can — mayhap — help,  in some  small  way,  some  other  sinful soul  lest — lest — it,  too - ”

No  comet  ever  shot  through  Space so  swiftly  as  did  that  Helper,  bearing me!

And  how  or  why  I  knew  not,  but  I was  but  a  Spark  once  more;  shining not  so  brightly,  it  is  true;  yet  not dingy  nor  lurid.  There  was  even  a slightly  yellowish  tinge -

Above  a  great  city  of  earth,  we hovered  finally.  I  could  see,  oh,  what could  I  not  see?  Earth-life,  its familiar  evils,  its  sins,  its  hatreds, and  its  self-caused  woes!

“Is  not  here  work  enough  for thee?”

“Too  mudi,  too  much,”  I  wailed, knowing  my  own  unfitness.  “I  ean not - ”

“Owe  soul,  thou  didst  say.  .  .”

“Let  me  descend — and  try.”

On  a  bed  of  rags  in  a  barely furnished  chamber  in  a  decaying house  located  in  a  dirty  slum,  lay  a woman,  dying.  Dwarfed,  erippled, worn  and  wasted.  Not  in  any  wise  a pleasing  sight,  even  were  she  not  at the  last  extremity.  And,  while  I watehed,  I  saw  the  vital  spark  fade out.  Very  clearly,  gratefully,  I  real¬ ized  my  most  glorious  opportunity.

“What  have  I  done  to  de¬ serve - ?”

“Naught  hast  thou,  done— yet t

Next  Month

The

Invading  Horde

By  ARTHUR  J.  BURKS

A  superb  weird-scientific  story that  looks  far  into  the  future, when  the  civilization  of  the  white races  is  grouped  in  the  sky-top¬ ping  City  of  the  East,  and  men  fly like  birds  in  curious  contrivances called  monopters.

A  n  eery  tale  of  the  invasion  of America  by  Asiatic  hordes  in giant  submarines,  of  thousandmile  defensive  walls  formed  of death-dealing  electric  currents,  of colossal  battles  high  in  the  air — a  holocaust  of  death  and  destruc¬ tion,  and  the  cataclysmic  waves of  the  Atlantic  sweeping  onward against  the  City  of  the  East  in  ad¬ vance  of  the  gigantic  submarines that  crawl  like  huge  insects  along the  bottom  of  the  ocean.  This story  will  be  printed  complete  in the

November  issue  of

WEIRD  TALES

On  Sale  October  1

Clip  and  Mad  this  Coupon  Today!

TOIRD  TALKS 450  East  Ohio  SU Chicago,  Ill.

Enclosed  find  $1  for  special  five  months subscription  to  “Weird  Tales"  to  begin  with the  November  issue.  <Special  offer  void unless  remittance  is  accompanied  by  coupon.)

Address

City _


WEIRD  TALES

But  thy  slain  sister  made  intercession for  her  slayer;  so — this!”

‘‘And  yet  she  knew?”

‘  ‘  It  was  because  she  did  know  that she  interceded,  besought  mercy — for thee ! ’  ’

“Qh!  What  have  I  been !”’

The  Helper  indicated  that  twisted, stunted  body  from  whence  the  Spark of  Life  had  so  recently  departed.  .  . “Well?”

‘‘I  am  content.”

‘‘With  that!”

“Aye!”

“So  low.  .  .”

“Leaven  rises  from  beneath.  .  .”

‘  ‘  Thou  hast  said !  ’  ’

Death  may  be  painful,  but  such birth  as  I  then  experienced  was — there  are  no  words  adequately  de¬ scriptive.  .  .  The  Helper  had  van¬ ished.

Life’s  Secrets!

MAGICS

ReaderCENTlW 112  N.  La  i

Bia.  186  No.  LaSalle  St.,  Chicago,  III.

s,  $5.00:  Cards.  $1.25;  Inks. $1.60;

SWF

Mums

TOBAC

Slowly  that  new  body  I  had  been granted,  as  fit  instrument  through which  to  atone,  grew  well  again, gained  strength.  On  a  street,  one day,  I  heard  someone  speaking  of  a “soul-doctor”;  and  —  I  —  would  — work.  For  thus  far,  I  have  sought  in vain.  .  .

What  I  said  to  that  grieving  soul I  may  not  reveal.  Yet  never will  I  forget  the  look  in  her  eyes,  nor the  expression  on  her  features  as  she departed.

“You  give  me — hope,”  she  stated simply.

But  I  do  not  think  that  she  who was  Lura  Veyle  sinned,  suffered,  and repented  in  vain.  To  believe  thus were  to  doubt  the  Infinite  Wisdom. Just  and  perfect  is  the  working  out of  the  Great  Law.

For  I  believe  that  the  world  is nearing  the  dawn-light  of  a  great spiritual  awakening.  Science,  with its  inexorable  exactitude,  will — nay, has  commenced  to — investigate,  and is  finding  that  many  things  hereto¬ fore  labeled  “superstition”  have  in reality  a  solid  basis  of  fact  as  founda¬ tion.

The  powers  and  forces  and  poten¬ tialities  latent  in  the  universe  are manifold,  limitless  in  possibility.  But as  there  are  true,  good  spirits  dwell¬ ing  within  these  our  bodies  of  the flesh;  so,  too,  are  there  others — evil, self-seeking,  unscrupulous.  Armed with  intangible  yet  very  real  forces — against  such,  the  Powers  of  Light, even,  may  not  avail  nor  suffice  to guard  this  world.  .  .

Yet,  mayhap,  the  story  of  Lura Yeyle  will  help  to  deter  some  such unscrupulous  ones.  As  it  may  suffice to  turn  away,  perchance — should  any such  read  it — some  erring  soul  who has  already  held,  or  who  seeks  to hold,  intercourse  with  the  Destroy¬ ers  Who  Tempt  with  Bribes.  .  .

So  may  it  be !

WEIRD  TALES


The  Bride  of  Osiris

(Continued  from  page  552)

side  panels,  carrying  the  group  of human  figures  before  it  like  straws.

“Close  the  hatch,  you  fool,”  yelled Alcibar.  “You  will  be  shot  into  the lake  in  a  few  seconds!  You  will  be drowned !  ’  ’

Again  Buell  reached  unsuccess¬ fully  for  the  swinging  figure.  The water  was  lapping  around  the  sides of  the  craft.  Suddenly  he  felt  it sliding  forward.  He  could  not  save this  maniac,  and  there  were  others  to think  of  besides  himself.  With  a quick  jerk  he  pulled  the  door  shut just  before  the  waters  closed  over it.  .  .  .

What  Do  You  Want?

Whatever  it  is  we  can  help  you  get  it.  Just give  us  the  chance  by  writing  for

“Clouds  Dispelled* *

Absolutely  Free.  You  will  be  delighted.  A«t today!  Write  NOW!!

THE  BROTHERHOOD  OF  LIGHT

Dept.  O,  Box  1535,  Los  Angeles,  Calif.

“T  and  ho!”

/  This  cheery  call  came  from Dan  Rafferty  in  the  steersman’s  seat some  ten  minutes  after  they  had plunged  beneath  the  lake.  It  had taken  him  that  long  to  find  out  just how  to  get  to  the  surface.

“Come  up  and  I’ll  show  yez  a sight  for  sore  eyes.”

Buell  and  the  two  girls  mounted the  steps,  and  cries  of  joy  escaped their  lips  at  sight  of  Chicago’s  rug¬ ged  skyline  silhouetted  against  a roseate  sunset  that  was  partly  ob¬ scured  by  the  pall  of  winter  smoke. Quite  near  them  the  Municipal  Pier, its  foundations  sheathed  in  ice,  jutted out  into  the  foam-flecked  water.

There  were  tears  in  the  eyes  of Doris  Lee — tears  of  happiness.  She nestled  close  to  Buell.

“It  all  seems  too  impossible,  too like  a  fairy-story,  to  be  really  true,  ’  ’ she  murmured.

Dan  Rafferty,  his  arm  around  the slender  form  of  Mary  Mooney,  was steering  with  one  hand.

“Sure  now,  it’s  all  too  true  to  be impossible,”  he  said.

[THE  END]

MIDGET  NAME  CARDS

~~~~  MIDGET  CARD  SHOP.  INC. 56  S.  Market  Sq.  Harrisburg,  Pa.

irGanii

■  I  unusuaI  offerl  Ten  weekly  issues  of  America's  I  ■

■  I  epocw  department,  for  every  member  of  the  family.  II AJ  Send  your  name,  address  and  10  cents  without  delay.  IBa

>>The  Pathfinder,  Dept.  CIOS,  Waablngton,D.C.  '

Educator  Press,  19  Park  Row

SSS-ZSaEF

w  Yerk,  Dept.  10-10

OLD  MONEY  WANTED  ]

3a  of  Old  Oi

CLARKE  COIN  CO.,  W.  T.  Dept.,  LeRay,  N.  T. MEN  WANTING  OUTDOOR  WORK.  QUALIFY

Mokane.  Dept.  :

PSYCHIC  READING

Send  birthdate  $1. St.,  Florence,  Mass.

BY  MAIL.  WILL  ANconsider  yonr  problems. Anna  Friedrich,  52  Lilly

can  now Rfon  a  Typewrite!

Special  Free  Trial  Offer!

tany  maney^^  __  .  _  _  ^

include  all  tools,  a  cover,  etc.,  aU T%  *“  are  the  largest

r  bargain  of  your  life.  The  tri _

"c  it  a  pleasure  to  pay.  There’s  no

- -and  the  finest  make!  We  include _ _

~ — ready  to  write.  Write  us  now.  Deal  direct; factory  of  the  kind.

Our  plan  gives  you  the  opportunity  of  a  thorough  trial  before  you  buy. You  run  no  risk  whatever.  You  start  to  pay  for  your  typewriter  AFTER you  have  found  it  the  only  machine  for  you!  But  get  the  feet  ’  ' lot  of  machines  is  all  in  use.  Clip  the  information  coupon  before  yuu  cum

Write  f£r  fuUpartieularsMit  once*  **“  “‘e,ul  book  you  wiU  receive  free!

The  Greatest  Typewriter Offer  Ever  Made

If  you  know  typewriters,  you  know  the  perfect  work  and  the ease  and  speed  of  a  Shipman-Ward  rebuilt  Underwood  typewriter New  machine  are  guaranteed  for  only  one  year;  WE  GUARANTEE EVERY  ONE  OF  OUR  MACHINES  FOR  FIVE  YEARS!  If  you vith  the  finest!  You  can

Wonderful  Stories

IF  Edgar  Allan  Poe  were  alive  today,  he  would  undoubtedly  be  writing  for Weird  Tales.  It  is  such  stories  as  this  imaginative  American  genius wrote  that  have  made  the  brilliant  success  of  Weird  Tales,  combined  with startling  weird-scientific  tales  of  the  Jules  Verne  type — tales  of  cosmic  space, wars  between  the  worlds,  invasions  from  the  outer  void ;  fantastic  and  bizarre stories;  eery  orientales;  creepy  mystery  tales;  eldritch  stories  of  shuddery horror;  tales  of  devil-worship;  stories  of  weird  monsters;  ghost-stories,  and other  tales  of  the  supernatural;  tales  of  witchcraft,  werewolves,  vampires  and familiars.  Among  the  amazing  stories  in  the  next  few  issues  will  be:

THE  INFIDEL’S  DAUGHTER,  by  E.  Hoffmann  Price

THE  CALL  OF  CTHULHU,  by  H.  P.  Lovecraft

loathsome  cult  of  C

“The  Outsider”—

THE  GODS  OF  EAST  AND  WEST,  by  Seabury  Quinn

Kali,  the  Black  God  of  the  Hindoos,  waged  a  terrific  battle  over  the  soul Idolyne  Chetwynde — a  tale  of  Jules  de  Grandin.

THE  SHADOWS,  fey  Henry  S.  Whitehead ^

THE  DEVILS  OF  PO  SUNG,  by  Bassett  Morgan

THESE  are  but  a  few  of  the  many  super-excellent  stories  in  store  for the  readers  of  Weird  Tales.  To  make  sure  of  getting  your  copy  each month,  and  thus  avoid  the  embarrassment  of  finding  your  favorite  news  stand sold  out,  just  fill  out  the  coupon  below  and  let  us  send  it  right  to  your  home. That’s  the  safest  way.

'■Weird  Tales,"

[THE END]
