============================================================
Weird Tales
Volume 22, Number 1
Date: July 1933
============================================================
============================================================
TABLE OF CONTENTS

  1. "of unsolicited manuscripts, although every care will be taken of such material while in their possession" by The contents of this magazine are fully protected by copyright and must not be reproduced either wholly or in part
  2. "Pitates’ Cave Alfted I" by Tooke
============================================================
============================================================
OF UNSOLICITED MANUSCRIPTS, ALTHOUGH EVERY CARE WILL BE TAKEN OF SUCH MATERIAL WHILE IN THEIR POSSESSION
by The contents of this magazine are fully protected by copyright and must not be reproduced either wholly or in part
============================================================
with fright! la! la! It waits hungry for the blood that is the life!"

Rogers, propped against the wall, swayed to and fro in his bonds.

"See here, Jones — if I let you go will you let me go? It must be taken care of by Its high priest. Orabona will be enough to keep It alive — and when he is finished I will make his fragments immortal in wax for the world to see. It could have been you, but you have rejected the honor. I won’t bother )rou again. Let me go, and I will share with you the power that It will bring me. la! la! Great is Rhan-Tegoth! Let me go! Let me go! It is starving down there beyond that door, and if It dies the Old Ones can never come back. Hei! Hei! Let me go!”

Jones merely shook his head, though the hideousness of the showman’s imaginings revolted him. Rogers, now staring wildly at the padlocked plank door, thumped his head again and again against the brick wall and kicked with his tightly bound ankles. Jones was afraid he would injure himself, and advanced to bind him more firmly to some stationary object. Writhing, Rogers edged away from him and set up a series of frenetic ululations whose utter, monstrous unhumanness was appalling, and whose sheer volume was almost incredible. It seemed impossible that any human throat



could produce noises so loud and piercing, and Jones felt that if this continued there would be no need to telephone for aid. It could not be long before a constable would investigate, even granting that there were no listening neighbors in this deserted warehouse district.

"Wza-y’eU WzA-y’ei!” howled the madman. "Y’kaa haa bho — ii, RbanTegoib — Ctbulhu phagn — EiJ Ei! Ed! Ei! — Rhax-Tegoth. Rhan-Tegoth, RhanTegoth!”

The tautly trussed creature, who had started squirming his way across the littered floor, now reached the padlocked plank door and conunenced knocking his head thunderously against it. Jones dreaded the task of binding hina further, and wished he were not so exhausted from the previous struggle. This violent aftermatli was getting hideously on his nerves, and he began to feel a return of the nameless qualms he had felt in the dark. Everything about Rogers and his museum was so hellishly morbid and suggestive of black vistas beyond life! It was loathsome to think of the waxen masterpiece of abnormal genius which must at this very moment be lurking close at hand in the blackness beyond the heavy, padlocked door.

And now something happened which sent an additional chill down Jones’s spine, and caused every hair — even the tiny growth on the backs of his hands — to bristle with a vague fright beyond classification. Rogers had suddenly stopped screaming and beating his head against the stout plank door, and was straining up to a sitting posture, head cocked on one side as if listening intently for something. All at once a smile of devilish triumph overspread his face, and he began speaking intelligibly again — this time in a hoarse whisper contrasting oddly with his former stentorian howling.

"Listen, fool! Listen hard! It has heard me, and is coming. Can’t you hear It splashing out of Its tank down there at the end of the runway.? I dug it deep, because there was nothing too good for It. It is amphibious, you know — ^you saw tile gills in the picture. It came to the earth from lead-gray Yuggoth, where the cities are under the warm deep sea. It can’t stand up in there^po tall — ^has to sit or crouch. Let g:; my keys — we must let It out and kneel down before It. Then we will go out and find a dog or cat — or perhaps a drunken man — to give It the nourishment It needs.’’

I T WAS not what the madman said, but the way he said it, that disorganized Jones so badly. 'The utter, insane confidence and sincerity in that crazed whisper were damnably contagious. Imagination, with such a stimulus, could find an active menace in the devilish wax figure that lurked unseen just beyond the heavy planking. Eyeing the door in unholy fascination, Jones noticed that if bore several distinct cracks, though no marks of violent treatment were visible on this side. He wondered how large a room or closet lay behind it, and how the waxen figure was arranged. The maniac’s idea of a tank and runway was as clever as all his other imaginings.

Then, in one terrible instant, Jones completely lost the power to draw a breath. 'Ihe leather bdt he had seized for Rogers’ further strapping fell from his limp hands, ^d a spasm of shivering convulsed him from head to foot. He might have known the place would drive him mad as it had driven Rogers — ^and now he was mad. He was mad, for he now harbored hallucinations more weird than any which had assailed him earlier that night. The madman was bidding him hear the splashing of a mythical monster in a tank

W. T.— 4



beyond the door — and now, God help him, he did hear it!

Rogers saw the spasm of horror reach Jones’s face and transform it to a staring mask of fear. He cackled.

"At last, fool, you believe! At last you know! You hear It and It comes! Get me my keys, fool — ^we must do homage and serve It!”

But Jones! was past paying attention to any hiunan words, mad or sane. Phobic paralysis held him immobile and half conscious, with wild images racing fantasmagorically through his helpless imagination. There was a splashing. There was a padding or shuffling, as of great wet paws on a solid surface. Something was approaching. Into his nostrils, from the aacks in that nightmare plank door, poured a noisome animal stench like and yet unlike that of the mammal cages at the zoological gardens in Regent’s Park.

He did not know now whether Rogers was talking or not. Everything real had faded away, and he was a statue obsessed with dreams and hallucinations so unnatural that they became almost objective and remote from him. He thought he heard a sniffing or snorting from the unknown gulf beyond the door, and when a sudden baying, trumpeting noise assailed his ears he could not feel sure that it came from the tightly bound maniac whose image swam uncertainly in his shaken vision. The photograph of that accursed, unseen wax tiling persisted in floating through his consciousness. Such a thing had no right to exist. Had it not driven him mad?

Even as he reflected, a fresh evidence of madness beset him. Something, he thought, was fumbling with the latch of the heavy padlocked door. It was patting and pawing and pushing at the planks. There was a thudding on the stout wood, which grew louder and louder. The W. T.— 5

stench was horrible. And now flie assault on that door from the inside was a malign, determined pounding like the strokes of a battering-ram. There v/as an ominous cracking — a splintering — a welling fetor — a falling plank — a black paw ending in a crab-like claw....

"Help! Help! God help me!... Aaaaaaa!.,.”

With intense effort Jones is today able to recall a sudden bursting of his fearparalysis into the liberation of frenzied automatic flight. What he evidently did must have paralleled curiously the wild, plunging flights of maddest nightmares; for he seems to have leaped across the disordered crypt at almost a single bound, yanked open the outside door, which closed and locked itself after him with a clatter, sprung up the worn stone steps three at a time, and raced frantically and aimlessly out of that dank cobblestoned court and through the squalid streets of Southwark.

Here the memory ends. Jones does not know how he got home, and there is no evidence of his having hired a cab. Probably he raced all the way by blind instinct — over Waterloo Bridge, along the Strand and Charing Cross, and up Haymarket and Regent Street to his own neighborhood. He still had on the queer melange of museum costumes when he grew conscious enough to call the doctor.

A week later the nerve specialists allowed him to leave his bed and walk in the open air.

But he had not told the specialists much. Over his whole experience hung a pall of madness and nightmare, and he felt that silence was the only course. When he was up, he scanned intently all the papers whidi had accumulated since that hideous night, but found no reference to anything queer at the museum. How much, after all, had been reality?



Where did reality end and morbid dream begin? Had his mind gone wholly to pieces in that dark exhibition chamber, and had the whole fight with Rogers been a fantasm of fever? It would help to put him on his feet if he could settle some of these maddening points. He must have seen that damnable photograph of the wax image called “It”, for no brain but Rogers’ could ever have conceived such a blasphemy.

I T WAS a fortnight before he dared to enter Southwark Street again. He went in the middle of the morning, when there was the greatest amount of sane, wholesome activity around the ancient, crumbling shops and warehouses. The museum’s sign was still there, and as he approached he saw that the place was open. The gateman nodded in pleasant recognition as he summoned up the courage to enter, and in the vaulted chamber below an attendant touched his cap cheerfully. Perhaps everything had been a dream. Would he dare to knock at the door of the workroom and look for Rogers?

'Then Orabona advanced to greet him. His dark, sleek face was a trifie sardonic, but Jones felt that he was not unfriendly. He spoke with a trace of accent.

"Good morning, Mr. Jones. It is some time since we have seen you here. Did you wish Mr. Rogers? I’m sorry, but he is away. He had word of business in America, and had to go. Yes, it was very sudden. I am in charge now — here, and at the house. I try to maintain Mr. Rogers’ high standard — till he is back,”

'The foreigner smiled — ^perhaps from affability alone, Jones scarcely knew how to reply, but managed to mumble out a few inquiries about the day after his last visit. Orabona seemed greatly amused by the questions, and took considerable care in framing his replies.

"Oh, yes, Mr. Jones — the 28 th of last month. I remember it for many reasons. In the morning — before Mr. Rogers got here, you understand — I found the workroom in quite a mess. 'There was a great deal of — cleaning up — to do. There had been — late work, you see. Important new specimen given its secondary bakin-g process. I took complete charge when I came.

"It was a hard specimen to prepare — but of course Mr. Rogers has taught me a great deal. He is, as you know, a very great artist. When he came he helped me complete the specimen — helped very materially, I assure you — but he left soon without even greeting the men. As I tell you, he was called away suddwily. There were important chemical reactions involved. 'ITiey made loud noises — in fact, some teamsters in that court outside fancy they heard several pistol shots — very amusing idea!

“As for the new specimen — that matter is very unfortunate. It is a great masterpiece — designed and made, you understand, by Mr. Rogers. He will see about it when he gets back.’’

Again Orabona smiled.

"The police, you know. We put it on display a week ago, and there were two or three faintings. One poor fellow had an epileptic fit in front of it. You see, it is a trifle — stronger — than the rest. Larger, for one thing. Of course, it was in the adult alcove. The next day a couple of men from Scotland Yard looked it over and said it was too morbid to be shown. Said we’d have to remove it. It was a tremendous shame — such a masterpiece of art — ^but I didn’t feel justified in appealing to the courts in Mr. Rogers’ absence. He would not like so much publicity with the police now — but when he gets back — ^when he gets back

For some reason or other Jones felt &



mounting tide of uneasiness and repulsion. But Ot^jona was continuing.

"You are a connoisseur, Mr. Jones. T am sure I violate no law in offering you a private view. It may be — subject, of course, to Mr. Rogers’ wishes — that we shall destroy the specimen some day — but that would be a crime.’’

Jones had a powerful impulse to refuse the sight and flee precipitately, but Orabona was leading him forward by the arm with an artist’s enthusiasm. The adult alcove, crowded with nameless horrors, held no visitors. In the farther corner a large niche had been curtained off, and to this the smiling assistant advanced.

"You must know, Mr. Jones, that the title of this specimen is The sacrifice to Rhan-Tegoth.’ ’’

Jones started violently, but Orabona appeared not to notice.

"The shapeless, colossal god is a feature in certain obscure legends which Mr. Rogers has studied. All nonsense, of course, as you’ve so often assured Mr. Rogers. It is supposed to have come from outer space, and to have lived in the Arctic three raUlioa ]year$ ago. It treated its sacrifices rather peculiarly and horribly, as you shall see. Mr. Rogers had made it fiendishly life-like — even to the face of the victim."

Now trembling violently, Jones clung to the brass railing in front of the curtained niche. He almost reached out to stop Orabona when he saw the curtain beginning to swing aside, but some conflicting impulse held him back. ’The foreigner smiled triumphantly.

"Behold!”

JONES reeled in spite of his grip on the railing.

"God! — ^great God!”

Fully ten feet high despite a shambling, crouching attitude expressive of infinite

cosmic malignancy, a monstrosity of luibelievable horror was shown starting forward from a cyclopean ivory throne covered with grotesque carvings. In the central pair of its six legs it bore a crushed, flattened, distorted, bloodless thing, riddled with a million puncturc-s, and in places seared as with some pungent acid. Only the mangled head of the victim, lolling upside down at one side, revealed that it represented something once human.

The monster itself needed no title for one who had seen a certain hellish photograph. 'That damnable print had been all too faithful; yet it could not carry the full horror which lay in the gigantic actuality. The globular torso — the bubblelike suggestion of a head — ^the three fishy eyes — the foot-long proboscis — the bulging gills^the monstrous capillation of asp-like sudcers — the six sinuous limbs with their black paws and crab-like claws — God! the familiarity of that black paw ending in a crab-like claw!...

Orabona’s smile was utterly damnable. Jones choked, and stared at the hideous exhibit with a mounting fascination which perplexed and disturbed him. What halfrevealed horror was holding and forcing him to look longer and search out details.’ 'This had driven Rogers mad... Rogers, supreme artist... said they weren’t artificial....

Then he localized the thing that held him. It was the crushed waxen victim’s lolling head, and something that it implied. This head was not entirely devoid of a face, and that face was familiar. It was like the mad face of poor Rogers. Jones peered closer, hardly Imowing why he was driven to do so. Wasn’t it natural for a mad egotist to mold his own features into his masterpiece? Was there anything more that subconscious vision had seized on and suppressed in sheer terror?



The wax of the mangled face had been handled with boundless dexterity. Those punctures — how perfectly they reproduced the myriad wounds somehow inflicted on that poor dog! But there was something more. On the left cheek one could trace an irregularity which seemed outside the general scheme — as if the sculptor bad sought to cover up a defect of his first modelling. The more Jones

looked at it, the more mysteriously it horrified him — and then, suddenly, he remembered a circumstance which brought his horror to a head. That night of hideousness — the tussle — the bound madman — dW long, deep scratch down the

left cheek of the actual living Rogers.,,.

Jones, releasing his desperate clutch on the railing, sank in a total faint.

Orabona continued to smile.

By JACK WILLIAMSON

A tale of weird adventures in the hidden land of Arabia, and a golden folk that ride upon a golden-yellow tiger and worship a golden snake

The Story Thus Par

D ynamiting their schooner behind them upon the south coast of Arabia, a little band of desperate adventurers struck out into the hostile mystery of the Rub’ A1 Khali, crudest and least-known desert of the earth. Their leaders were Price Durand, wealthy, world-weary American soldier of fortiuie, Jacob Garth, enigmatic Englishman, and Joao de Castro, unsavory Macanese.

Equipped with an army tank, machineguns, and mountain artillery, and acccompanied by the sheikh Fouad d Akmet and his renegade Bedouins, they are raiding the forbidden "golden land,” which is guarded by the uncanny sdentific powers of its weird rulers, the "golden folk” — a man, an exotic woman, a huge, domesticated tiger, and a gigantic snake, all four of which appear amazingly to be of eternal yellow metal, yet immortally alive,

Price Durand fell immediately in love with Aysa, a strange, lovely fugitive of the desert, whom he rescued from de Castro. When she was carried off by Malikar, the golden man. Price set out at once to recover her Eberty.

He had armed himself with battle-ax, chain-mail, and shield of strangely tempered gold that he found in an ancient tomb, and he discovered that the Beni Anz, the Arabs of the lost oasis, thought him the reincarnation of their long-dead hero, Iru, to whom the golden armor had belonged.

The natives joined the invaders in an attack xipon the mountain in which the golden folk dwelt, where Aysa had been taken. The attempt was defeated by the astounding scientific instrumentalities of the yellow beings — invisible rays of deadly cold, and the dread, hypnotic eyes of the golden serpent which appeared in an

XhiS stsfy began in WXSIBD XaJUES tor April



inexplicable, mirage - like phenomenon. Price, recovering consciousness on the deserted field of battle, has just been attacked by a member of the cult of the golden snake.

17. The Slave of the Serpent

A s PRICE DURAND Stumbled to his feet, the world tilted and spun beneath him. His head drummed with pain. Ho reeled, and fought to keep his balance, while the stony wadi floor, strewn with the dead, whirled around him.

The blacky basaltic mass of Hajar Jehannum, its gold-and-marble crown sullen in the red sunset, was first on one hand, then on the other. A wave of blackness rose about him, receded. Then the rocking desert steadied.

For a moment Price lost his attacker. Then he saw the Arab again, limping fiercely forward, whirling the yataghan.

One leg half dragging, he came with a series of bounding hops. Half his face was a scarlet, grinning smear; in his eyes was the lust of the killer.

Price fought to master his dizziness, and staggered backward to gain time. Tlie heavy golden ax lay on the ground behind him, but he had neither time to reach it, nor strength, at the moment, to wield it.

He stumbled on the rough lava, swa)red, regaining his balance with difficulty. But a measure of his strength was returning.

In a flash the snake-man was upon him, silent, breathing with quick, hot gasps like a struggling animal, driven by savage, fanatic hate. The double-curved yataghan swung up, and Price darted forward beneath it, one hand rushing for the Arab’s sword-arm.

The mad rush of the wounded man flung them together. Despite Price’s guarding arm, the yellow blade came


, WEIRD TALES

against his side, rasping upon the linked golden mail he wore. Then his arms were around the snake-man, and they toppled together to the stony ground.

With demoniac energy the Arab tried to tear himself free, to use his wicked blade. Price clung desperately to his hold, biting his lip to keep back dizziness.

Suffering only from concussion and exhaustion, his muscles stiffened from his long period of unconsciousness. Price was steadily recovering his strength with activity. And the snake-man, having lost much blood, animated merely by blind, mad hatred, rapidly collapsed.

His struggles weakened, and suddenly he relaxed in Price’s arms, unconscious. The wound in his thigh was bleeding, opened again by his struggles.

Appropriating the yataghan, Price moved a little away and stood, breathing hard, warily watchmg the snake-man.

"Mr. Durand?” Price started as the interrogative voice spoke unexpectedly behind him. He whirled, to see the tall, lank Kansan, Sam Sorrows, sta^ering up behind him, arms laden.

"Why, Sam!” he ejaculated.

"Thought it m^t be you, Mr. Durand, in that golden coat. I didn't know there was anybody else alive around here.”

"I didn’t either, Sam. But there were three of us.”

"Three?”

Price pointed to the unconscious Arab.

"Tic him up,” the Kansan said, "and come on over to ffie tank. I’ve some loot here, for suf^r.” He nodded at the bundles in his arms.

Price bound the snake-man’s wrists and ankles with kafyebs taken from the dead Beni Anz warriors, roughly bandaged his bleeding thigh-wound, which was shallow and not serious, and followed Sam Sorrows to the side of the tank, where the old man was unloading his burden — small

sacks of dried dates, coarse flom, and dried, powdered camel-flesh; and a full water-skin.

"Found these up in the trenches.” He nodded across the wadi.

Squatting by the gray metal bulk looming in the dusk, they ate and drank.

"The mirrors got you, in the tank?” Price said after a time.

"Yes. Mawson was with me. The limey. He’s dead. I was down driving. Guess I was better protected. But I must have been out quite a while.

"I was pretty sick when I came to. Cold as hell, shivering all over. And Mawson there, already stiff. I started to crawl out in the sunshine.

"I got my head out the manhole, and saw a lot of Arabs around the tank. Ever]rffiing was quiet. All were looking up in the mirage, at that damned snake. The thing was swaying back and forth. Had them all charmed. I didn’t more than glance at it, believe me!

"Then I saw the old tiger, standing there, big as an el^>lHmt, with the saddle on him. And a yellow man, down in front of han, stabbing those fellows that were looking in the mirage.

"Then you went at the yellow feller, and he knocked you out with a rock.

"Aboirt that time, I guess, some of the others were coming out of that damned spell. I heard the caimon go off a time or two, and shrapnel screaming over. The yellow man ran for his tiger again, and the Arabs brdce and beat it. About that tune I went under again.”

"Jacob Garth?” demanded Price. "He got away?”

"I think so. Looked like they were paddng up the guns when I went out again. Guess they’d had enou^.”

"What are you phuiaing to do?”

"I was feeling pretty much knocked out when 1 came around again, an hour or so



ago.” The old man laughed a little. "Went out to see about rations. Thought rd sleep aboard tonight, and try running back to the oasis in the morning. That okay with you.^ We ought to make it by noon.”

Price merely nodded. He was thinking.

R eturning to his captive an hour later,. Price found the snake-man conscious again. After a moment’s efltort against his bonds, he lay quiet, glaring up at Price with hate-filled eyes.

"Who are you?” Price asked, in the ardiaic Arabic of the Beni Anz.

He did not answer, but the stubborn movement of his head, in the moonlight, told Price that he had understood.

Price returned to the tank, where Sam Sorrows was tinkering with his motor in anticipation of an early start, and brought back a canteen half full of water. He sloshed it noisily beside the man and repeated the question.

After half an hour, the Arab moved, and a voice spoke from the red ruin of his face;

"I am Kreor, a slave of the snake, under Malikar, priest of the snake.”

And he whimpered for the water. "No,” Price told him. "You must tell me more, and promise to help me, if you would drink again.”

"I am sworn to the snake,” the man hissed. "And you are Im, the ancient enemy of the snake and of Malikar. The eyes of the snake will seek me out and slay me, if I betray it.”

"I’ll see you are dakhile [protected],” Price assured him. "Forget Ae snake, if you would drink, and serve me.”

A long time the Arab was silent, staring scornfully up into the moon-swept sky. Price felt a sui'ge of pity for him. He

was near abandonment of his plan, when the snake-man whispered.

"So be it I renounce the snake, and tihe service of Malikar under the snake. I am your slave, Iru. And dakhile?"

"Dakhile," Price assured him again. But the voice of the Arab had a ring of cunning duplicity that he did not like. He wished that the moonlight were brighter, so that he could see the man’s face.

"Now give me water. Lord Iru.”

Price thrust back his feelings again.

"First you must prove yourself. Answer me this question: Where is the girl named Aysa, whom Malikar brought from Anz?”

The snake-man hesitated, spoke reluctantly: "Aysa sleeps in the mists of gold, in the serpent’s lair.”

"What’s that? Where is the serpent’s lair?”

"Under the mountain. In the temple above the abyss of the mists of gold.”

"Asleep, you say. What does that mean?” Panic edged his voice. "You don’t mean she’s dead?”

"No. She sleeps the long sleep of the golden vapor. Malikar honors her. She becomes one of the golden folk.”

"Better explain this a little,” Price said, menacingly. "Tell a straight story, if you want to drink again. What’s this about golden mist?”

Again the Arab hesitated, glaring at him with crafty eyes in which hate was not wholly dead. Price sloshed the canteen; the other yielded.

"In the caverns beneath the mountain rises the vapor of gold, the breath of life. They who breathe it sleep. And sleeping^ they become golden, as Malikar is golden, and deathless.”

"Aysa, then, is being turned into gold?” Price inquired, incredulous.

"Yes. Soon her blood will be golden.


.WEIRD TALES

When she wakes she will be priestess of the snake. And Vekyra indeed is wroth to know that Malikar has tired of her."

"Vekyra.^” Price queried. "Who’s she?”

"She is the old priestess of the snake. A woman of gold. Priestess — and Malikar’s mistress.”

"She’s the one we saw in the mirage, over the mountain.”

"In the sky? Yes. She is mistress also of the shadow. Vekyra has power of her own. Malikar will not easily be rid of her.”

Price did not trust the man. Truth was hardly to be expected from a bound, helpless prisoner, who had been at one’s throat an hour before. Moreover, thinly veiled hatred and scorn crept again and again into his voice. But, obviously, the Arab did not want to die. Some aid, some true information might be got from him. It would be a game of wits between them.

Was Aysa actually being turned into another monster of gold, by some diabolical diemical? It might easily be a fantastic lie on the snake-man’s part. But the tale had a certain grim plausibility that edged Price’s nerves with alarm.

"Do you know any way,” Price demanded, "that we could get secretly into the mountain? To where Aysa is? Is that tunnel always guarded?”

Kreor lay silent again; he trembled.

"Answer me!” Price demanded. "Tell me if you can lead me to where the girl is?”

"The wrath of the snake, and Malikar,” the Arab muttered.

"Remember, you are dakhlle.”

"But I am wounded,” the snake-man protested. "I could never reach the mountain.”

"Your wounds aren’t serious,” Price assured him. "You can walk tomorrow, though perhaps a bit painfully. Speak.”

"You could never get past the gates. They are always lodced, and guarded.”

"Is there another way?”

Again the man hesitated, and squirmed on the ground.

"Another way there is. Lord Iru. But perilous indeed.”

"What is it?”

"High on the north wall of the mountain is a crevice. It leads into a great cave. From the cave is a way into the passages that lead down into the golden mist. But great is the peril, Iru. The climb is not easy; above the place of the snake are guards.”

"We are going there,” Price told him levelly, "as soon as you can walk. And unlucky it will be for you if you haven’t told the truth.”

He let the man drink. Bringing food from the tank, he loosened his hands, so that he could eat, and then bound him again.

PRICE and Sam Sorrows slept and watched by turns that night. As Price sat, leaning against the tank through the long hours of his watch, with the keen desert air about him and the cool stars looking down, he thou^t a great deal about the course of his adventures in this lost world, about what he should do on the morrow.

In the morning he could ride back to El Yerim in the tank, and the adventure would be over. The Beni Anz, he was certain, would not be willing to fight again under his leadership; old Yarmud would be remembering that he had denied being Iru. And he could hardly join Jacob Garth’s party again, Joao de Castro hating him as he did.

If he turned back, there would be nothing to do save procure a camel or two, and strike out for civilization. He could never solve the weird riddles that had conGOLDEN BLOOD


ftonted him: the mystery of the mirage, of the golden folk. In^itely worse, he would never see Aysa again.

On the other hand, he could remain with Kreor until the man recovered, and assault the mountain alone. It was a desperate plan. The Arab obviously hated him, would certainly betray him if opportunity presented. And opportunity was almost certain to appear.

The chance that he should ever leave the mountain alive appeared extremely slight. None the less, Price never really hesitated. The decision was inevitable.

"Back at camp by noon,” lanky old Sam Sorrows predicted genially, as tfiey breakfasted in the dawn,

"I’m not going with you,” Price told him.

"What!”

"I’m going to try for the mountain on my own. Going to make that bird in die blue clothes guide me in. We’ll hide around here until he can walk.”

"But, Mr. Durand,” the old man cried, "I — I don’t like to see you try it, sir. I wouldn’t trust that fellow. He’s a — a snake!”

"I don’t trust him. But he’s the only shot.”

Sam Sorrows stared at him, grinned and rose and shook his hand.

"Ludc, Mr. Durand. A craay thing to do, sir. But you might make it. I’ll leave you the water-skin, and the grub. And you might find something more up in the trenches.”

Half an hour later the tank went lumbering back toward the oasis. Fastening a halter-rope about his prisoner’s neck. Price loosed his ankles and conducted him to a hiding-place among the tumbled masses of lava half a mile down the wadi. Kreor limped and grumbled, but he could walk.

Fastening him again. Price returned and

searched the abandoned battlefield for food and water, finding all he could carry.

For two days Price kept the Arab bound, nursing his wounds with painful care. On the late afternoon of the second day, when Price was sleeping, the man worked loose his bonds.

Disturbed by some obscure warning of danger, perhaps some faint sound of the snake-man’s footsteps or his breathing. Price looked up to see Kreor standing above him, a jagged mass of lava raised in both hands.

18. Frost of Gold

SNATCHING at the ancient battle-ax, which he kept always beside him. Price rolled over, away from tfie boulder in whose shadow he h^ been lying. The stone came crashing down where his head had been.

With a single gliding movement. Price was on his feet, swinging up the ax. Tlie Arab made to leap forward, then, realizing his helplessness against the ax, stopped and folded his arms and stood staring at Price with mad hatred in his eyes.

Resolutely, Price met his eyes, motionless.

"Slay me, Iru,” the Arab muttered. "Strike, that I may be gathered into the abyss of the snake.”

"Nothing doing. But tonight you are going to take me to Aysa. If you are able to murder me you are able to walk. We have plenty of moonlight. If you try any tricks it will be time enough to split your head.”

The man assented with an apparent meekness that Price found disturbing.

"Very well, Iru. Since the gods awakened you, I shall not attempt to betray you again.”

Price knotted the halter-rope about the man’s neck, to preclude any attempt at

i74


flight. They finished die remaining water and food, and then set off across the lavafields, toward the basaltic mass of the mountain, looming dark in the moonlight.

It was five miles directly to the mountain; perhaps eight or nine by the route they took around to the north cliffs. Price held the rope, forced his guide to walk in front. The man limped somewhat, and it was past midnight when they reached the precipice.

The moon was low; it was dark in the shadow of the mountain. It would be impossible, Kreor said, to make the climb in darkness. They lay down to rest on bare lava. The Arab breathed loudly, and seemed to sleep, while Price kept his grasp on the ax, and fought slumber.

He held the rope tight. Toward dawn it loosened; he knew Kreor was creeping upon him, and jerked the rope. The Arab sprawled on the rock beside him, protesting that he had risen merely to stretch his muscles.

With the first light of day they started inching a perilous way up a narrow chimney between basalt columns. The snakeman went first. Price following, the rope tied around his waist so that he could use both hands.

Half an hour of difficult climbing found them three hundred feet up the face of an almost vertical cliff. Kreor, above, gained a narrow edge where he could stand with hands free, and began a furious attempt to untie the knot at his throat.

Cunningly, he had chosen a moment when Price required all his fingers and toes to cling to the rode. It was a desperate race, with life for the stake; the rope untied, Kreor could readily push Price to a fall of several hundred feet.

Price drew himself up with reckless haste. The Arab loosen^ the first knot;

but Price, in antidpation of something of the kind, had tied several.

At last, trembling and panting from his effort. Price reached a crevice where he could free a hand. He seized the rope, jerked on it, almost precipitating the snake-man from the ledge.

"Lead on,” Price commanded. "And keep the rope tight.”

Snarling with baffled hate, the Arab wriggled crabwise into a narrow crack above the ledge. Following him, but keeping the rope taut. Price reached the ledge, and slipped through the crevice into a tiny, gloomy cavern.

Kreor led the way from one damp, black chamber into another. Light of day was swiftly lost; the darkness became abysmal. Walls and roof and floor were rugged, uneven stone. Sometimes the passages were difficult to push through. Twice they had to crawl for a distance upon hands and knees.

Again and again Price warned his guide to keep the rope tight. He kept asking the man whispered questions, so that the answers would reveal his whereabouts.

They came at last into a larger cavern. Price could not estimate its size in the utter darkness, but the faint sounds of their movements came whispering back to straining ears as if from the walls of a vast chamber.

Price counted two hundred and sixty paces, as the Arab, at the end of the stretched rope, led him through mystic darkness. He was attempting to remember distances and direction of turns, so that if he indeed found Aysa, he could bring her safely out.

"Here we enter the passage, Iru,” Kreor said.

"Will there be men near?”

"I think not. These passages are remote.”



"Come back this way."

Price tugged at the rope, led the man badk into the cavern, j^eor uttered a howling saeam.

"Silence!” Price hissed. "I’m not going to kill you. Lie down!”

He struck a match to see that the man had obeyed. 'Then he gagged him, with a handkerchief in his mouth and a kafiyeh tied around his head.

"Get up,” he ordered. "And lead on to Aysa. I’ll turn you loose if I get out with her.”

WITH sullen reluctance, Kreor led the way from the rugged cavern to a smooth -floored, narrow tunnel. Cool damp air flowed oi^ard through it; it was. Price suj^sed, intended for ventilation.

A hundred and eighty paces, and the snake-man turned to the left. They entered a wider passage, still completely daric. Witii a sure step the Arab led the way down it.

Green light ^wed suddenly on a black wall befoce them; shadows danced in it, magnified, fantastic.

With a jerk of the rop^. Price stopped his guide.

"What’s that?” he demanded. 'Then, realizing that Kreor could not reply: "Let’s get out of si^t. Quick!”

'The man stood still. Price was helpless. He had no idea which way to seek safety. And any struggle to make the Arab do his bidding would alarm whoever was approaching.

Three men in hooded robes of blue entered the dark hall, fifty yards ahead, from an intersecting passage. Two carried long, yellow-bladed pikes; the third, a torch flaring with a queer, vivid green flame.

Kreor made a futile attempt to scream through his gag. Price jerked savagely

on the rope, and fondled the helve of his ax.

The three paused in the tunnel, the torch-bearer speaking. 'The two pike-men laughed a little, as if at some idle jest. And then the three started on in the opposite direction.

The green li^t, flickering on walls and floor and roof, framed them. Dark figures in a little square of green. The square grew small. Then the light was gone; the passage had turned.

"Lead on,” Price whispered. "And don’t try again to give the alarm.”

Again they were advancing in the darkness. The Arab seemed to require no light. Price kept the rope tight, counted paces. Kreor turned again to the left, into a passage that sloped sharply downward and curved smoothly to the left.

'The slope. Price estimated, was one foot in four. By counting his paces, he could roughly calculate the amount of actual descent.

When he first became aware of the yellow light, they had descended eight hundred yards along the inclined passage. That meant that the spiral tunnel had carried them some six hundred feet downward, and perhaps three hundred feet below the level of the surrounding plain.

A vague, golden radiance, at first almost imperceptible. As they descended through the silent passage, the Arab leading sullenly at the end of his rope, it became denser, became a yellow fog of tiny, xanthic atoms, dancing endlessly.

He could see the walls of the passage, now, black basalt of the old volcano’s core, smoothly chiseled, the tool marks almost undistinguishable. The tunnel was perhaps eight feet wide, somewhat higher, curving downward in a great spiral.

They were, by Price’s estimate, two hundred feet lower in the yellow-lit pas76


sage, when they passed the end of a horizontal tunnel. When they were only a few yards beyond. Price heard voices from below. A man’s and a woman’s. Sharp, excited, angry.

"Come back,’’ he snarled to Kreor.

He made the Arab enter the horizontal way. It was the same size as the other. Lucent, glistening yellow mist filled it with shadowless, xanthic radiance.

Golden mist. The phrase throbbed suddenly in Price’s brain. The snake-man had told him that Aysa slept, deep in the mountain, in golden vapor that was changing her to living metal. Was this weird light his golden mist? Was his fantastic story true?

As Price followed the sullen Arab along the tunnel, he noticed an extraordinary thing about its walls. They were covered with yellow frost. Over the smoothly hewn, jet-black basalt was a rime of glittering crystals, a delicate tracery of golden flakes. Even the floor was dusted with it. Golden frost!

It was amazing. The gleaming crystals, he knew, must have been deposited from the yellow mist. That meant that the mist was some volatile compound of actual, metallic gold, formed, probably, in the natural laboratory of the volcanic fissiues beneath the mountain.

Price roughly understood the process of petrification, in which every minutest cell and tissue of an animal may be perfectly replaced with mineral, to endure as geologic records for a million years. It was easy enough to see how such a process might turn an animal — or a human being — into gold.

But could it take place without destroying life?

Obviously not, if the tissues were replaced with pure gold. But this yellow vapor was not pore gold. To exist in the

form of vapor at such temperatures, it must be roughly as volatile as water.

Water is the basis of life, of all protoplasmic compounds. Was this yellow mist a compound of gold, distilled in the vast natural retort of the volcano, that could replace the water in the body, without upsetting any chemical balance? The idea was astonishing, but not impossible.

Busy with this conjecture. Price had almost forgotten the gagged man at the end of his rope. And suddenly he discovered that the rope was sladc in his hands. He had come out of the tunnel, upon a narrow, stone-railed balcony. Beyond and below was sheer space, goldmisted.

From beside the tunnel’s entrance, the snake-man leapt upon him with silent ferocity.

1 9. For the Mastery of the Serpent

I T WAS sheer instinct for Price to drop the end of the rope tied to the Arab’s neck, as he leapt back before that imexpected attack, and swung up the great ax to defend himself. And Kreor must have been expecting something of the kind, for he turned suddenly from the suicidal charge and bolted up the gold-frosted passage, coiling the rope as he ran.

Price sprang into instant pursuit, but the snake-man’s limp seemed miraculously cured. He dashed back along the passage, gaining steadily, and disappeared where it gave into the spiral way.

Reaching the sloping tunnel only a few moments later. Price peered up and down through dancing golden mists. The Arab had vanished, soundlessly.

Cursing his carelessness in allowing Kreor to escape. Price could not help a certain admiration for his late prisoner. To be sure, the Arab was the acolyte of the insidious Malikar, the branded adherGOLDEN BLOOD


fent of an evil snake-cult; he had tried to murder Price at every opportunity. It was his very determination and ruthless enterprise that had won him Price’s regard as a worthy opponent.

While Price knew the man would hasten to spread an alarm, he could not be wholly sorry to see him escape.

For a moment Price stood at the end of the passage, uncertain whether to return to the balcony where Kreor had escaped, or to go on down the slanting way. Curiosity drew him back to the balcony; it was a strange and wonderful sight he had glimpsed from it in the brief second before the Arab’s flight and his own pursuit.

The balcony was twenty feet wide and twice as long, with a low stone railing. Beyond the railing was a Cyclopean space, a circular room, fully four hundred feet in diameter, hewn in the living rock. 'The roof was a vast, unbroken dome, yellowcrusted, like the walls, with frost of gold.

That colossal, rock-hewn room was filled with sparkling yellow mist. The immensity and strangeness of it awed Price. Almost timidly he crept to the edge of the high gallery and lo^ed over the railing.

The floor was himdreds of feet below. Frosted, like the walls, with a glitter of yellow crystals, it filled a great half-circle, opposite him. The side of the amazing room directly below the gallery had no floor. The gold-rimed rock ended in a ragged line. Below was cavernous space, a far-flung void filled with xanthic mist. Mile upon awesome mile — or so it seemed — it fell beneath him, golden-green with deptli upon illimitable depth,

'The circular room was hewn in the basalt, above the great cave. And half the room had only that cave for a floor. A colossal temple it was, above the natural laboratory in whose volcanic crucibles was bom the puzzling golden vapor.

Leaning over the gold-frosted stone parapet. Price saw the bridge, a narrow span of black stone, flung across that sheer, golden-green abyss. From the wall, directly under his gallery, it leapt across to meet the ragged edge of the floor, near the center of the vast room. Incredibly narrow, it was little more than a black line from his point of view.

'The room was like a theater. The half a floor was the stage. The abyss that the narrow bridge spanned was the orchestra pit — with the bottom fallen out. The high balcony upon which Price stood was a lone box.

PRICE was still looking over the railing when the actors came upon that stage, to perform a weird and amazing drama.

Side by side they strode from the square opening of a rock-hewn passage, out upon the yellow -crusted floor. Malikar and Vekyra. So far below they looked like puppets.

Malikar, the golden man whom Price had twice fought. Thick-bodied, yellowbearded, robed in crimson and wearing a red skull-cap. Coiled in one great hand was a thick, long whip.

Price had not seen Vekyra before, save in those extraordinary projections upon the sky. Her exotic beauty, wild and passionate, was almost startling. Slim, yellow-limbed, her body was cased in green. Red-golden hair was bound with a wide black band. Lids of oblique, tawny-green eyes were darkened; lips and cheeks and fingers reddened.

The two walked a little apart, and they seemed to be quarreling; Price knew at once that it was their voices he had heard upon the spiral way. Their voices reached him, Vekyra’s high and clear, even in anger; Malikar’s harshly unpleasant.

The words of their conversation, however, Price did not understand. They;



spoke rapidly; the sound was swallowed in the ringing echoes of the vast room. He was not sure even that they spoke a familiar language.

The woman ran suddenly away frwn Malikar, and up the camp that led to a stone platform, suggestive of an altar, set within a niche at the end of the great stage.

Price had not noticed the platform in detail before. Now, for the first time, he saw the snake. The real golden reptile whose dread reflection he had seen in the mirage. Huge, moticNnless, golden scales gleaming in the unshadowed light. Coiled in a heap of gleaming, undulating loops, the graceful pillar of its bright neck lifted in the center.

Vekyra stopped on the edge of the altar before it, and began to sing. She flung up bare yellow arms in the golden light. Her voice was keen, liquidly and tantaliaingly sweet. And the song had a queer, archaic rhythm.

The evil, triangular head of the serpent swayed in time to Vdeyra’s singing, and the purple-blade eyes watched her, smoldering with immemorial flames. Slowly the head was thrust out toward Vekyra, sank to the level of her shoulders.

The song stopped, then, and she ran up to it. Her yellow arms slipped around the motionless, horiaontal column of the neck, in strange caress. She stroked the flat golden head.

Then Price heard Malikar’s angry shout. Evidently displeased widi what was happening, he was stalking belligerently toward the platform, swinging the heavy whip.

Springing suddenly away from the serpent, Vekyra ran down the ramp to meet him, calling out to the snake behind her with a strange, pealing shout.

The snake imcoiled its bright, undulating length; it glided after her down

the ramp. It was. Price saw, fully the size of the largest boa; its length, he estimated, was at least fifty feet.

Vekyra sto{^d at the foot of the ramp, and the snake swept pa^ her, toward Malikar. The triangular head was high, mouth yawning, bright tongue flideering, twin golden fangs gleaming evilly. And the snake hissed as it struck at Malikar; a sibilant, menacing roar, ^onishingly loud, reverberating eerily in the vast temple.

Malikar stood boldly in its path, shouted with a voice like a brazen clang.

The serpent stopped, arrested, before him. Still it hissed, angrily, tempestuously. V^yra ran after it, calling out in a hi^, urgent tone. The snake struck, drove its fanged head at Malikar.

With surprizing alertness, the priest leapt back, and swung the black whip. It cracked like a pistol. The flat head recoiled, as if hurt. Malikar strode forward, brandishing the whip. He began to shout at the serpent, his voice brazen, ringing.

The snake writhed back before him. its hiss sinking to an uncertain whisper of hate.

Vekyra ran in beside it. Her slim yellow arms caressed ks scales again. Her voice rose in silver, liquid peals.

The serpent stoj^5ed its retreat. The broad head whipped back and rubbed against the woman’s golden body, caressingly. She stroked it.

Malikar came on. Vekyra speflee to the snake, appealingly, cajolingly, commandingly. The golden wedge of the head left her body and struck again at Malikar, but hesitantly, doubtfully.

Still tile priest was shouting. The snake seemed to shrink from his harsh, brazen tones; flie hate-filled hissing died. It started to writhe away. Maliku bellowed savagely; it stopped.



He strode up to its shrinking coils, stood roaring at it. He struck it with the whip. A tremor ran along its glistening length; the weird, purple-black eyes remained fixed upon him. Again he lashed it, and it did not stir.

Vekyra ran up to it, began caressing its coils again, her voice eloquent with golden pleading. It paid her no heed; the black eyes remained upon Malikar.

At length the priest dropped his whip, boomed a harsh command. Slowly, hesitantly, the flat, yellow-scaled head was thrust out at him, its fanged mouth closed. With heavy open hand he slapped it a dozen times, so hard that Price, in his high gallery, heard the blows.

Then Malikar shouted a harsh order at it. The great head moved toward the woman. She cried out, silvery tones shaken, plainly terrified. The slow movement did not cease. The snake hissed again, with the whisper of a far wind.

Vekyra screamed brokenly, as if with extreme terror. She fled across the yellow-frosted floor, toward the passage through which she and Malikar had come. After her the great serpent glided swiftly, hissing.

She vanished. The snake stopped. Malikar called to it, and it came undulating back to him, silent. Before him it drew into a mound of shimmering golden coils and lowered its flat head, watching the priest with purple-black eyes.

Malikar began to lash it.

The whip was long, and thick as his wrist at the butt, tapering. He swimg it expertly. The thin tip touched the snake with explosive reports. It quivered; uneasy undulations ran along its bright coils, but the purple-black eyes did not cease their unwinking gaze. Sometimes the yellow man chuckled, thickly, evilly, as if he got a sadistic pleasure from the torture.

At last he stopped, and stood motionless a long time, staring at the snake. Then he pointed with the butt of the whip at the altar-like platform, shouted brazenly. The yellow, gleaming serpent glided back up the ramp, coiled itself in the niche again, unmoving,

Malikar coiled the whip. Swinging it in one hand, he aossed the floor to the brink of the golden-green abyss, and started over the narrow bridge. Fully two hundred feet long, unrailed, the bridge was no more than two feet wide. Beneath was the giddy void, luminous, xanthic green, vast as the gulf between suns.

With steady stride, the red-robed priest walked the dizzy bridge, until he was midway across the awful pit. Suddenly he haltecL Price thought at first that he must have been overcome with vertigo. But he casually transferred the coiled black whip to his left hand, and absently, unconcernedly, scratched his head.

Then Malikar turned hastily, as if he had forgotten something. He walked back to the ragged edge of the floor, and across it, and vanished along the way Vekyra had taken.

20. The Sleeper in the Mist

T he strange duel of Vekyra and Malikar, for control of the golden serpent, had held Price engrossed. For the moment he had completely forgotten his escaped prisoner, Kreor, who was certain to return as soon as he could find aid. As Malikar went out of view Price awoke to the fact that he must quit the gallery quickly if he wished to continue his free adventures in the moimtain.

A glance told him there was only one way to leave the gallery: the passage through which he had come. He hastened back along it, resolving, as he went, to



carry on his exploration of the yellow-lit corridors.

Kreor had told him that Aysa lay somewhere down here, sleeping. Price had no belief in the snake-man’s veracity. The story had an element of weird incredibility; but at least, he supposed, the girl was as likely to be here as anywhere else.

Price had reached the spiral passage, started cautiously downward, when he heard footsteps ahead of him, and angry, low-voiced muttering. Retreating hastily to the end of the horizontal passage, he entered it and flattened himself against the wall.

Malikar strode past in a moment, a scowl on his yellow face, grumbling under his breath. Wondering how soon he would return. Price waited until all sound from him had ceased, then entered the sloping way again, and ran down it, ears straining for sound of the alarm that Kreor must be spreading.

The quivering golden atoms in the air became thicker as he descended, until he moved through pallid wraiths of shining xanthic mist. Even then he noticed an odd tickling sensation in his nostrils, a slight breathlessness. But in his preoccupation with other perils he disregarded the menace of the yellow mist.

The tunnel became strai^t, level. Price followed it into the great, circular room he had surveyed from the high gallery. Curving, gold -frosted walls rose about him, to the dome hundreds of feet above. High under the dome he made out the balcony, through golden haze.

The ragged edge of the yellow-dusted floor was two hundred feet away. Beyond that edge was sheer space, with the single narrow span of the bridge leaping across to the wall beneath the high gallery. At the end of the bridge, he saw a great niche in the wall, a wide shelf above the abyss.

On his right, eighty yards across the floor, was the altar-like dais, with the glittering length of the gold serpent upon it. At first realization that he had come into the lair of the snake. Price started back apprehensively into the passage.

But die yellow reptile’s flat head was resting quietly upon Ae bright coils. 'The dread, purple-black eyes were closed. It seemed unaware of his entrance.

'The slender bridge drew Price with a sort of fascination. He feared to set foot upc«i it; knew that he could not easily keep his head above that stupendous chasm of green-gold vapor. But he had a sudden conviction that Aysa must be in the niche b^ond it.

It was not a time to hesitate. Malikar, for all he knew, might return at any moment. Kreor would dodsdess soon be back with a party to search for him. Worse, die gigantic snake might discover his presaice.

Without pausing for any deliberate consideration of his position. Price slipped as silaitly as he could across tihe great floor, to its uneven edge at the center of the room. 'The snake remained motionless. He reached the bridge, set out across it.

Smooth, muailed, the walk was less than two feet wide. Below was the sheer and awful void, shining immensities goldea-green with dizzying depth.

A professional acrobat, with trained sense of balance, would have found the aossing no feat at all. But Price reeled. He felt a moment of nausea, had to shut his ^es to recover his balance.

He tried not to look into the pk, tried to keep his eyes on the yellow-rimed stone at his feet. But Jie abyss drew his gaze with a sinister fascination.

He hurried, sometimes half running. His stomach was qucerly li^t. Cold sweat pearled his face. He was panting,

W. T.— 5



gripping his fists until nails cut into palms.

Dizziness seized him again, a sickening wave of it. He stopped to recover himself. Fiercely he willed to forget the yawning, misty void. He tried to think of Aysa. Of the night the Arabs had captured her and bartered her to Joao de Castro. Of their midnight escape from the caravan. Of their sweet, brief days in the hidden garden of Anz.

Head dear again, he hastened on.

PRICE was midway across the gulf when he was first definitely aware of the sleep descending upon him. When he first came into the thicker golden vapor he had noticed a curious tickling in his nostrils, a shortness of breath.

Now sleep was overcoming him like a rising sea. His limbs were suddenly weary, leaden -heavy. Weights pressed down his eyelids. His brain was slow and confused.

Alarmed, he stumbled on through xanthic fog.

With a sigh of vague relief, he staggered across a gold-frosted floor, safely beyond the chasm. He had gained the niche. But the sleep of the thick yellow mist was beating upon him in waves. Beating him down... down... down....

With chill certainty of dread, he knew that he could not keep awake to cross that fearsome bridge again, where a single false step would send him hurtling into limitless space.

He tried to pull himself together, surveyed the great niche. Its floor was semicircular, with a radius of perhaps forty feet; and black, yellow-frosted rock arched above the recess.

Within it stood four great oblong slabs of gold-rimed stone, like massive tables. Three of them were empty. But on the W. T.— 6

fourth lay a sleeping figure, wrapped in garments that glittered with fine crystals of gold.

An eager, poignant pain in his heart, Price ran to die slab, and looked fearfully down at the quietly breathing figure.

The sleeper was Aysa.

The girl’s lovely face, like her garments, was covered with fine crystals of yellow frost. His heart checked with sudden despair. Price tenderly brushed one cheek. To his vast relief, the dust of gold came away, leaving soft white skin.

Perhaps she was being slowly transformed to living metal. But if so, the uncanny change was not yet apparent.

"Aysa! Aysa! Wake up!" he called, and shook her; but she did not stir.

The aureate vapor was obviously somniferous. The girl was sunk in the same unnatural slumber that he felt descending upon himself.

He lifted her body. It was completely relaxed, surrendered to oblivion. She was warm, breathing regularly. But he could not wake her.

Blade despair fell upon him, made only keener by the possession of the lovely girl in his arms. He had found her — only to find with her inevitable defeat. But for the increasing influence of the soporific vapor, he could have carried her out and to clear air, where she might wake normally. But he dared not set out across the narrow bridge, with the frightful risk that his abnormal slumber would hurl them both to death.

Price was still standing beside the slab of stone, Aysa’s shoulders lifted in his arms, fighting the sinister sleep of the golden mist, and staring across the bridge he did not dare attempt to cross, when he saw Malikar.

The black whip still coiled in his hand, the red-robed priest was striding aaoss



the floor beyond the abyss, toward the end of the bridge.

Price’s first impulse was to drop the girl, try to hide. 'Then he was sure that the golden man must already have seen him. And, if not, he would immediately observe that Aysa had been moved, the yellow dust brushed from her face.

Carefully he laid the unconscious girl back upon the rodr table. He waited at the end of it, standing, fingers on the helve of the ancient ax. Malikar reached the bridge and started across.

Grim despair rose in Price’s breast, and mute, helpless rage at fate. Why must this insidious sleep steal upon him, just when he had won his way to the girl? Why must Malikar return just now, to crown disaster? 'The Durand luck — was it mocking him?

His body felt very heavy. His breathing was slow, difficult; the yellow mist still tidded his nostrils. His eyes were leaden. And waves of sleep beat about him, long slow breakers from the ocean of oblivion.

He fought to keep his eyes open, focussed on the burly yellow priest striding so confidently across the bridge. He struggled for mastery over his body, even to deal one blow with Iru’s ax. But the breakers of sleep rolled higher... flowed over him... drew him down into oblivion.

21. At the Mercy of Malikar

F rom the sleep of the yellow fog. Price woke upon utter darkness. Stripped naked, he lay upon a little pile of straw or coarse grass, that was painful to his skin. Leaping up in uncomprehending alarm, he drove his head against a low stone ceiling.

Dazed, he sank back to his knees, and explored the narrow space about him with

his hands. It was a narrow dungeon, some four feet wide and seven long, the roof so low that he could not stand. 'The walls were cold stone, roughly hewn. The door was a metal grating, through which breathed stagnant, vitiated air. His exploring fingers found nothing in the cell save the pile of moldy straw.

Sickness of despair settled upon him. He was the helpless captive of Malikar. "rhe fact that his misfortune might have been foreseen from the beginning of his mad adventure in the mountain made it no easier to accept.

He tried to shake the metal grille. It seemed immovable; he could not even rattle it. He shouted through it, then. His voice echoed strangely through dark corridors, until it was swallowed in silence.

Baffled, helpless, he flung himself down again on the straw. He was hungry. His mouth was dry and bitter with thirst.

He was entombed within the mountain, apparently forgotten. A man marooned upon an alien planet would not be more completely isolated, he thought — and would at least have the advantage of interesting surroundings to divert his attaition.

Time crept past, unmunbered weary hours, while he endured the torture of thirst and hunger, and plumbed the ultimate desolation of despair.

He slept again, and green light awakened him, streaming through the bars. Three blue-robed men were without, armed with pikes and yataghans, one carrying a green-flaring torch.

One of them unlocked the grille, pushed through two pottery bowls, of which one held water, the other a stew of meat thickened with flour. While the men waited. Price drained the one, avidly attacked the other.

When the bowls were empty, the snakeGOLDEN BLOOD


men unlocked the door again; one commanded harshly; "Come!”

They conducted him along the dark corridor, up a sloping, spiral way like that he had followed down to the serpent’s lair, and finally through a wide, arched passage into an amazing room. A long chamber, hewn from the mountain’s black volcanic mass. A score of feet wide, three times that long, with high, vaulted ceiling. The first thing about it that struck Price as strange was that it was illuminated by shaded electric lamps.

Along either wall stood a dozen snakemen, in blue, rigid, staring straight before them, armed with pikes and yataghans.

In the farther end of the room sat Malikar. Beneath a cluster of frosted electric globes, he sat behind a heavy mahogany desk, that might have come from some Manhattan office. Upon the desk was an electric fan, whirring noisily, and beside it lay the long black whip with which the priest had castigated the snake.

In crimson robe and skull-cap, the yellow man sat with thick golden hands resting on the desk. The strange eyes in his harsh face, shallow, tawny, watched Price from the moment of his entrance.

Along the stone wall behind Malikar were green-painted steel filing-cabinets, bookcases filled with volumes bound in the Occidental style, and a long bench scattered with scientific instruments — compound microscope, balances, testtubes, reagents, camera, brass telescope.

Above was a large wall-map of the world, dated 1921, with the imprint of a famous American publishing house.

Those scraps of Western civilization were as amazing to Price as any of the weird wonders he had encountered in the hidden land. And Malikar seemed to read his astonishment, as the snake-men stopped him before the desk..

“ O URPRiZED to find me a cosmopolitan, >3 eh.?” the yellow priest asked, in his hard, dead voice. And the language was English.

"Yes,” Price said. "I’m surprized.”

"You are English, aren’t you?”

"American.”

"Ah. I visited New York ten years ago. An interesting city.”

Price stared at him.

"I’ve been going abroad rather frequently, since about the time of the fall of Rome,” the yellow man added. "My last trip was in 1921-22. I spent a few months at Oxford and Heidelberg, to acquaint myself with the latest developments of your crude civilization, and returned home around the world, by way of your country. I use a disguise, of course, that I don’t find necessary here.

"By the way, I believe you followed my route in here from the sea?”

"You mean the road of skulls?”

"Precisely. The human skull is an enduring marker, with high visibility. — ^But now I’d like some information about yourself, and the circumstances to which I am indebted for your call.”

Price flushed at the mocking irony in his dead, cold tones.

"What’s your name?”

"Price Durand.”

"You are aware that you have been mistaken for an ancient ruler named Iru — whose tomb you appear to have rifled?”

"Perhaps so.”

The shallow, tawny eyes regarded Price fixedly.

"Mr. Durand, you might explain the purpose of your visit.”

Price hesitated, decided to speak. 'There was no need of caution; nothing could make his circumstances any more hopeless.

"I was looking for Aysa. The girl j^ou abducted.”



"I am glad you are honest, at least,” the golden man mocked him. "But, unfortimately for you, the young woman has been selected to fill a higher destiny than you planned for her. She is to be priestess of the snake — and my consort.”

"Are you turning her to gold?” Price demanded flatly, controlling his anger.

"The snake would accept no ordinary human as its priestess,” Malikar informed him, tauntingly. "She must be of the golden blood.

"Don’t you understand the transformation? The yellow mist in the lair of the snake is a rare auriferous compound, formed in the volcanic heart of the earth. Condensing upon the walls of the temple, it forms yellow frost.

"When inhaled into a living body, this compound replaces the water in the protoplasm, forming a living substance, the color of gold, that is far stronger and more endiuring than common flesh.”

"And you expect Aysa to give herself to you?” Price angrily demanded. "You know she hates you— deservedly!”

"I fear her regard for me is not of the kindest,” Malikar leered. "But once of the golden blood, she will not easily escape me. She can not seek death. Taming her may be pleasant sport — and time is nothing to the ludcy immortals. She will learn to love me.”

Malikar leaned forward, chuckling throatily, evilly. He picked up the heavy black whip on the desk, ran the thin lash of it through his yellow fingers, gloatingly, suggestively.

Red rage flared up in Price at thought of lovely Aysa, locked in a golden body from which she could not escape, the slave and plaything of this leering yellow demon.

He glared at Malikar, speechless with anger, longing savagely to sink his fingers into the yellow priest’s thick neck.

Suddenly the golden man bent, opened a drawer of the desk, and produced a delicate brush and a small bottle of what appeared to be liquid, flowing gold. Setting brush and vial on the desk, he looked up at Price with flat, inscrutable, yellowish eyes.

"Mr. Durand,” he said suavely, "I a m going to offer you an unusual opportunity. I can make use of your services in exterminating the foolish gold-seekers that came with you in here.”

"Will you free Aysa ” Price began

eagerly.

"No,” Malikar grated shortly. "But I give you one chance to save your pitiful life.”

"And that is ”

"Here is your choice: Swear allegiance to the snake, and to me, priest of the snake. I will paint the symbol of the snake upon your forehead, spare your life to the service of the snake.”

"I’ll do nothing of the kind ”

'"This is your choice,” repeated Malikar, with grim irony. "Become slave of the snake, and live. Or you shall be the slave of this snake” — ^he lifted the black coils of the whip — "and die in the dungeon!”

The gloating, jeering cruelty of the hard, flat voice snapped Price’s control of himself. Red anger swept him. Naked as he was, he tmned upon the snake-man beside him, snatched the golden-bladed pike from his dumfoiuided grasp, and leapt savagely toward the red-robed man behind the desk.

Two guards seized him before he had moved three steps.

Malikar sprang from behind the big desk, chuckling unpleasantly and drawing the whip’s thin lash through his fingers.

"Loose the dog,” he snapped at the guards, in Arabic.



They released Price, leapt back to the walls.

Again he darted forward, the pike up* lifted.

The thin black length of the ^diip reached out, writhing like a living tentacle. It did not touch Price; it wrapped around the wooden haft of the pike.

The weapon was snatched from Price’s hand, flimg across the floor. Still he ran forward, fists clenching, driven by blind, mad rage at this suave, taunting golden demon.

Again the whip leapt out, with a sharp report. In his red anger Price was un- (Xmscious of the pain. But the skin on his chest was slashed open as if with a knife.

Still he ran on, fists doubled to drive into Malikar’s body.

As if endowed with malignant life, the whip reached out again, coiled around his

ankles. Tripped by it, he stumbled, fell heavily.

As he staggered to his feet, the lash drew a cold line of pain aaoss his naked back. Again he stuinbled forward.

The long lash went round and round his body, pinioning his arms. Malikar jericed it, sent him spinning once more to the floor.

As Price dragged himself to his feet, he saw that the golden tiger had entered the long hall behind him. In its blade howdah sat Vekyra, the yellow woman, watching him with slanted, tawny-green eyes — detached, impersonal, pitiless.

Again the lash fell aaoss his shoulders, like a slashing blade. Price heard Malikar chuckle thickly, in evil, sadistic pleasure. He turned and ran reeling back at the priest, grasping with vain hands at the living, torturing whip.


[THE END]

============================================================
PITATES’ CAVE ALFTED I
by Tooke
============================================================
The astonishinpr adventores of Prlee In the hall o< |Unsion_wlll be faseinatinidT toid In next month*! Wbirb Taum^ on «ue Aogost 1.

P.

C/irates’ Cave

By ALFRED I. TOOKE

Some say Jewels, and some say gold.

I found a skeleton covered with mold.

I had a candle, flickering low;

Shadows of pirates danced in its glow — Shadows of pirates long since dead;

One of them danced though he lacked a head — Guarding the jewels, guarding the gold. Guarding the skeleton covered with mold,

"Keep ytHtr treasures! Keep your dead!”

1 told the shadow that lack^ a head.

The others beckoned, but I didn’t stay.

My candle was flickering. I came away.

"The hideous crone seized Gilman by the shoulder, yanking him out of bed and into empty space."

reams m

the Witch-House

By H. P. LOVECRAFT

A story of mathematics, witchcraft and Walpurgis Night, in which the horror creeps and grows — a new tale by the author of "The Rats in the Walls”

WHETHER the dreams brought on the fever or the fever brought on the dreams Walter Gilman did not know. Behind everything crouched the brooding, festering horror of the ancient town, and of the moldy, luihallowed garret gable where he wrote and studied and wrestled with figures and formulae when he was not tossing on the meager iron bed. His ears were growing sensitive to a preternatural and intolerable degree, and he had long ago stopped the cheap mantel clock whose tidcing had come to

seem like a thunder of artillery. At night the subtle stirring of the black city outside, the sinister scurrying of rats in the wormy partitions, and the creaking of hidden timbers in the centuried house, were enough to give him a sense of strident pandemonium. The darkness always teemed with unexplained sound — and yet he sometimes shook with fear lest the noises he heard should subside and allow him to hear certain other, fainter noises which he suspected were lurking behind them.



He was in the changeless, legendhaunted city of Arkham, with its clustering gambrel roofs that sway and sag over attics where witches hid from the King’s men in the dark, olden days of the Province. Nor was any spot in that dty more steeped in macabre memory tlian the gable room which harbored him — for it was this house and this room which had likewise harbored old Keziah Mason, whose flight from Salem Jail at the last no one was ever able to explain. That was in 1692 — the jailer had gone mad and babbled of a small white-fanged furry thing which scuttled out of Keziah’s cell, and not even Cotton Mather could explain the curves and angles smeared on the gray stone walls with some red, sticky fluid.

Possibly Gilman ought not to have studied so hard. Non-Euclidean calculus and quantum physics are enough to stretch any brain; and when one mixes them with folklore, and tries to trace a strange background of multi-dimensional reality behind the ghoulish hints of the Gothic tales and the wild whispers of the chimney-corner, one can hardly expect to be wholly free from mental tension. Gilman came from Haverhill, but it was only after he had entered college in Arkham that he began to connect his mathematics with the fantastic legends of elder magic Something in the air of the hoary town worked obscurely on his imagination. The professors at Miskatonic had urged him to slacken up, and had voluntarily cut down his course at several points. Moreover, they had stopped him from consulting the dubious old books on forbidden secrets that were kept imder lock and key in a vault at the imiversity library. But all these precautions came late in the day, so that Gilman had some terrible hints from the dreaded Ntcronotnicon of Abdul Alhazred, the fragmentary Book of Eibon, ' and the suppressed Unaussprechltchen

Kulten of von Junzt to correlate with his abstract formulas on the properties of space and the linkage of dimensions known and imknown.

He knew his room was in the old Witch-House — that, indeed, was why he had taken it. There was much in the Essex Comity records about Keziah Mason’s trial, and what she had admitted under pressure to the Court of Oyer and Terminer had fascinated Gilman beyond all reason. She had told Judge Hathome of lines and curves that could be made to point out directions leading through the walls of space to other spaces beyond, and had implied that such lines and curves were frequently used at certain midnight meetings in the dark valley of the white stone beyond Meadow Hill and on the unpeopled island in the river. She had spoken also of the Black Man, of her oath, and of her new secret name of Nahab. Then she had drawn those devices on the walls of her cell and vanished.

Gilman believed strange things about Keziah, and had felt a queer thrill on learning that her dwelling was still standing after more than 235 years. When he heard the hushed Arkham whispers about Keziah’s persistent presence in the old house and the narrow streets, about the irregular human tooth-marks left on certain sleepers in that and other houses, about the childish cries heard near MayEve and Hallowmass, about the stend often noted in the old house’s attic just after those dreaded seasons, and about the small, furry, sharp-toothed thing which haunted the moldering structure and the town and nuzzled people curiously in the black hours before dawn, he resolved to live in the place at any cost. A room was easy to secure; for the house was unpopular, hard to rent, and long given over to cheap lodgings. Gilman could not have



told what he expected to find there, but he knew he wanted to be in the building where some circumstance had more or less suddenly given a mediocre old woman of the Seventeenth Century an insight into mathematical depths perhaps beyond the utmost modern delvings of Planck, Heisenberg, Einstein, and de Sitter.

He studied the timber and plaster walls for traces of cryptic designs at every accessible spot where the paper had peeled, and within a week managed to get the eastern attic room where Keziah was held to have practised her spells. It had been vacant from the first — for no one had ever been willing to stay there long — but the Polish landlord had grown wary about renting it. Yet nothing whatever happened to Gilman till about the time of the fever. No ghostly Keziah flitted through the somber halls and chambers, no small furry thing crept into his dismal eyrie to nuzzle him, and no record of the witch’s incantations rewarded his constant search. Sometimes he would take walks through shadowy tangles of luipaved musty-smelling lanes where eldritch brown houses of unknown age leaned and tottered and leered mockingly through narrow, small-paned windows. Here he knew strange things had happened once, and there was a faint suggestion behind the surface that everything of that monstrous past might not — at least in the darkest, narrowest, and most intricately crooked alleys — have utterly perilled. He also rowed out twice to the ill-regarded island in the river, and made a sketch of the singular angles described by the mossgrown rows of gray standing stones whose origin was so obscure and immemorial.

G ilman’s room was of good size but queerly irregular shape; the north wall slanting perceptibly inward from the

outer to the inner end, while the low ceiling slanted gently downward in the same direction. Aside from an obvious rat-hole and the signs of other stopped-up ones, there was no access — ^nor any appearance of a former avenue of access — to the space which must have existed between the slanting wall and the strai^t outer wall on the house’s north side, though a view from the exterior showed where a window had been boarded up at a very remote date. The loft above the ceiling — which must have had a slanting floor — was likewise inaccessible. When Gilman climbed up a ladder to the cobwebbed le\'el loft above the rest of the attic he found vestiges of a bygone aperture tigfitly and heavily covered with ancient planking and secured by the stout wooden pegs common in Colonial carpentry. No amount of persuasion, however, could induce the stolid landlord to let him investigate either of these two closed spaces.

As time wore along, his absorption in the irregular wall and ceiling of his room increased; for he began to read into the odd angles a mathematical significance which seemed to offer vague clues regarding their purpose. Old Keziah, he reflected, mi^t have had excellent reasons for living in a room with peculiar angles; for was it not through certain angles that she claimed to have gone outside the boundaries of the world of space we know.^ His interest gradually veered away from the unpliunbed voids beyond the slanting surfaces, since it now appeared that the purpose of those surfaces concerned the side he was already on.

The touch of brain-fever and the dreams began early in February. For some time, apparently, the curious angles of Gilman’s room had been having a strange, almost hypnotic effect on him; and as the bleak winter advanced he had found him*



self staring more and more intently at the comer where the down-slanting ceiling met the inward-slanting wall. About this period his inability to concentrate on bis formal studies worried him considerably, his apprehensions about the mid-year examinations being very acute. But the exaggerated sense of hearing was scarcely less annoying. Life had become an insistent and almost imendurable cacophony, and there was that constant, terrifying impression of other sounds — perhaps from regions beyond life — ^trembhng on the very brink of audibility. So far as concrete noises went, the rats in the ancient partitions were the worst. Sometimes their scratching seemed not only furtive but deEberate. When it came from beyond the slanting north wall it was mixed with a sort of dry rattling; and when it came from the century-closed loft above the slanting ceiling Gilman always braced himself as if expecting some horror which only bided its time before descending to engulf him utterly.

The dreams were wholly beyond the pale of sanity, and Gilman felt that they must be a result, jointly, of his studies in mathematics and in folklore. He had been thinking too much about the vague regions which his formulas told him must lie beyond the three dimensions we know, and about the possibility that old Keziah Mason — ^guided by some influence past all conjecture — had actually found the gate to those regions. The yellowed county records containing her testimony and that of her accusers were so damnably suggestive of things beyond human experience — and the descriptions of the darting little furry object which served as her familiar were so painfully realistic despite tlreir incredible details.

That object — no larger than a goodsized rat and quaintly c^led by the townspeople "Brown Jenkin” — seemed to

have been the fruit of a remarkable case of sympathetic herd-delusion, for in 1692 no less than eleven persons had testified to glimpsing it. There were recent rumors, too, with a baffling and disconcerting amount of agreement. Witnesses said it had long hair and the shape of a rat, but that its sharp-toothed, bearded face was evilly human while its paws were like tiny human hands. It took messages betwixt old Keziah and the devil, and was nursed on the witch’s blood, which it sucked like a vampire. Its voice was a kind of loathsome titter, and it could speak all languages. Of all the bizarre monstrosities in Gilman’s dreams, nothing filled him with greater panic and nausea than this blasphemous and diminutive hybrid, whose image flitted across his vision in a form a thousandfold more hateful than anything his waking mind had deduced from the ancient records and the modern whispers.

Gilman’s dreams consisted largely in plunges through limitless abysses of inexplicably colored twilight and bafiEngly disordered sound; abysses whose material and gravitational properties, and whose relation to his own entity, he could not even begin to explain. He did not walk or climb, fly or swim, aawl or ■wriggle; yet always experienced a mode of motion partly voluntary and partly involuntary. Of his own condition he could not well judge, for sight of his arms, legs, and torso seemed always cut off by some odd disarrangement of perspective; but he felt that his physical organization and faculties were somehow marvelously transmuted and obliquely projected — though not without a certain grotesque relationship to his normal proportions and properties.

The abysses were by no means vacant, being crowded with indescribably angled masses of alien-hued substance, some of which appeared to be organic while others seemed inorganic. A few of the organic



objects tended to awake vague memories in the back of his mind, though he could form no conscious idea of what they mockingly resembled or suggested. In the later dreams he began to distinguish separate categories into which the organic objects appeared to be divided, and which seemed to involve in each case a radically different species of conduct-pattern and basic motivation. Of these categories one seemed to him to include objects slightly less illogical and irrelevant in their motions than the members of the other categories.

All the objects — organic and inorganic alike — ^were totally beyond description or even comprehension. Gilman sometimes compared the inorganic matter to prisms, labyrinths, clusters of cubes and planes, and Cyclopean buildings; and the organic things struck him variously as groups of bubbles, octopi, centipedes, living Hindoo idols, and intricate arabesc^ues roused into a kind of ophidian animation. Everything he saw was unspeakably menacing and horrible; and whenever one of the organic entities appeared by its motions to be noticing him, he felt a stark, hideous fright which generally jolted him awake. Of how the organic entities moved, he could tell no more than of how he moved himself. In time he observed a further mystery — the tendency of certain entities to appear suddenly out of empty space, or to disappear totally with equal suddenness. The shrieking, roaring confusion of sound which permeated the abysses was past all analysis as to pitch, timbre or rhythm; but seemed to be synchronous with vague visual changes in all the indefinite objects, organic and inorganic alike. Gilman had a constant sense of dread that it might rise to some unbearable degree of intensity during one or another of its obsaure, rdentlessly inevitable fluctuations.

But it was not in these vortices of complete alienage that he saw Brown Jenkin. That shocking little horror was reserved for certain lighter, sharper dreams which assailed him just before he dropped into the fullest depths of sleep. He would be lying in the dark fighting to keep awake when a faint lambent glow would seem to shimmer around the centuried room, showing in a violet mist the convergence of angled planes which had seized his brain so insidiously. The horror would appear to pop out of the rat-hole in the comer and patter toward him over the sagging, wide-planked floor with evil expectancy in its tiny, bearded human face; but mercifully, this dream always melted away before the object got close enough to nuzzle him. It had hellishly long, sharp, canine teeth. Gilman tried to stop up the rat-hole every day, but each night the real tenants of the partitions would gnaw away the obstruction, whatever it might be. Once he had the landlord nail tin over it, but the next night the rats gnawed a fresh hole, in making which they pushed or dragged out into the room a curious little fragment of bone.

G ilman did not report his fever to the doctor, for he knew he could ntJt pass the examinations if ordered to the college infirmary when every moment was needed for cramming. As it was, he failed in Calculus D and Advanced General Psychology, though not without hope of naming up lost groimd before the end of the term.

It was in March when the fresh element entered his lighter preliminary dreaming, and the nightmare shape of Brown Jenkin began to be companioned by the nebulous blur which grew more and more to resemble a bent old woman. This addition disturbed him more than he could account for, but finally he decided that it was like^



an ancient crone whom he had twice actually encountered in the dark tangle of lanes near the abandoned wharves. On those occasions the evil, sardonic, and seemingly unmotivated stare of the beldame had set him almost shivering — especially the first time, when an overgrown rat darting across the shadowed mouth of a neighboring alley had made him think irrationally of Brown Jenkin. Now, he reflected, those nervous fears were being mirrored in his disordered dreams.

That the influence of the old house was unwholesome he could not deny, but traces of his early morbid interest still held him there. He argued that the fever alone was responsible for his nightly fantasies, and that when tiie touch abated he would be free from the monstrous visions. Those visions, however, were of idjsorbing vividness and convincingness, and whenever he awaked he retained a vague sense of having undergone much more than he remembered. He was hideously sure that in unrecalled dreams he had talked with both Brown Jenkin and the old woman, and that they had been urging him to go somewhere with them and to meet a third being of greater potency.

Toward the end of March he began to pidc up in his mathematics, though other studies bothered him increasingly. He was getting an intuitive knack for solving Riemannian equations, and astonished Professor Upham by his comprehension of fourth-dimensional and other problems which had floored all the rest of the class. One afternoon there was a discussion of possible freakish curvatures in space, and of theoretical points of approadh or even contact between our part of the cosmos and various other regions as distant as the farthest stars or the trans-galactic gulfs themselves — or even as fabulously remote as the tentatively conceivable cosmic units beyond the whole Einsteinlaa space-time continuum. Gilman’s handling of this theme filled every one with admiration, even though some of his hypothetical illustrations caused an increase in the always plentiful gossip about his nervous and solitary eccentricity. What made the students shake their heads was his sober theory that a man might — given mathematic^ knowledge admittedly beyond all likelihood of human acquirement — step deliberately from the earth to any other celestial body which might lie at one of an infinity of specific points in the cosmic pattern.

Such a step, he said, would require only two stages; first, a passage out of the three-dimensional sphere we know, and second, a passage back to the threedimensional sphere at another point, perhaps one of infinite remoteness. That this could be accomplished without loss of life was in many cases conceivable. Any being from any part of three-dimensionil space could probably survive in the fourth dimension; and its survival of the second stage would depend upon what alien part of three-dimensional space it might select for its re-entry. Denizens of some planets might be able to live on certain o&ers — even planets belonging to other galaxies, or to similar dimensional phases of other space-time continua — though of course there must be vast niunbers of mutually uninhabitable even though mathematically juxtaposed bodies or zones of space.

It was also possible that the inhabitants of a given dimensional realm could survive entry to many unknown and incomprehensible realms of additional or indefinitely multiplied dimensions — be they within or outside the given space-time continuum — and that the converse would be likewise true. This was a matter for speculation, though one could be fairly certain that the type of mutation involved



in a passage from any given dimensional plane to the next higher plane would not be destructive of biological integrity as we understand it. Gilman could not be very clear about his reasons for this last assumption, but his haziness here was more than overbalanced by his clearness on other complex points. Professor Upham especially liked his demonstration of the kinship of higher mathematics to certain phases of magical love transmitted down the ages from an ineffable antiquity — human or pre-human — whose knowledge of the cosmos and its laws was greater than ours.

Around the first of April Gilman worried considerably because his slow fever did not abate. He was also troubled by what some of his fellow-lodgers said about his sleep-walking. It seemed that he was often absent from his bed, and that the creaking of his floor at certain hours of the night was remarked by the man in the room below. This fellow also spoke of hearing the tread of shod feet in the night; but Gilman was sure he must have been mistaken in this, since shoes as well as other apparel were always precisely in place in the morning. One could develop all sorts of aural delusions in this morbid old house — for did not Gilman himself, even in daylight, now feel certain that noises other than rat-scratching came from the black voids beyond the slanting wall and above the slanting ceiling? His pathologically sensitive ears began to listen for faint footfalls in the immemorially sealed loft overhead, and sometimes the illusion of such things was agonizingly realistic.

However, he knew that he had actually become a somnambulist; for twice at nigjit his room had been found vacant, though with all his clothing in place. Of this he had been assured by Frank Elwood, the one fellow-student whose poverty forced

him to room in this squalid and unpopular house. Elwood had been studying in the small hours and had come up for help on a differential equation, only to find Gilman absent. It had been rather presumptuous of him to open the unlodced door after knocking had failed to rouse a response, but he had needed the help very badly and thought that his host would not mind a gentle prodding awake. On neither occasion, though, had Gilman been there; and when told of the matter he wondered where he could have been wandering, barefoot and with only his nightclothes on. He resolved to investigate the matter if reports of his sleepwalking continued, and thought of sprinkling flour on the floor of the corridor to see where his footsteps might lead. The door was the only conceivable egress, for there was no possible foothold outside the narrow window.

A s APRIL advanced, Gilman’s feverL sharpened ears were disturbed by the whining prayers of a superstitious loom-fixer named Joe Mazurewicz, who had a room on the ground floor. Mazurewicz had told long, rambling stories about the ghost of old Keziah and the furry, sharp-fanged, nuzzling thing, and had said he was so badly haimted at times that only his silver crucifix — ^given him for the purpose by Father Iwanicki of St. Stanislaus’ Qiurch — could bring him relief. Now he was praying because the Witches’ Sabbath was drawing near. May Eve was Walpurgis Night, when hell’s blackest evil roamed the earth and all the slaves of Satan gathered for nameless rites and deeds. It was always a very bad time in Arkham, even though the fine folks up in Miskatonic Avenue and Hi^ and Saltonstall Streets pretended to know nothing about it. 'There would be bad doings, and a child or two would probably be missing.



Joe knew about such things, for his grandmother in the old country had heard tales from her grandmother. It was wise to pray and count one’s beads at this season. For three months Keziah and Brown Jenkin had not been near Joe’s room, nor near Pa>il Choynski’s room, nor anywhere else — and it meant no good when they held off like that. They must be up to something.

Gilman dropped in at the doctor’s office on the l6th of the month, and was surpri 2.ed to find his temperature was not as high as he had feared. The physician questioned him sharply, and advised him to see a nerve specialist. On reflection, he was glad he had not consulted the still more inquisitive college doctor. Old Waldron, wdio had curtailed his activities before, would have made him take a rest • — an impossible thing now that he was so close to great results in his equaticMis. He was certainly near the boimdary between the known universe and the fourth dimension, and who could say how much farther he might go?

But even as these thou^ts came to him he wondered at the source of his strange confidence. Did all of this perilous sense of imminence come from the formulas on the sheets he covered day by day? The soft, stealthy, imaginary footsteps in the sealed loft above were unnerving. And now, too, there was a growing feeling that somebody was constantly persuading him to do something terrible which he could not do. How about the somnambulism? Where did he go sometimes in the night? And what was that faint suggestion of sound which once in a while seemed to trickle through the confusion of identifiable sounds even in broad daylight and full wakefulness? Its rhythm did not correspond to anything on earth, unless perhaps to the cadence of one or two unmentionable Sabbat-chants, and sometimes

he feared it corresponded to certain attributes of the vague shrieking or roaring in those wholly alien abysses of dream.

The dreams were meanwhile getting to be atrocious. In the fighter preliminary phase the evil old woman was now of fiendish distinctness, and Gilman knew she was the one who had frightened him in the slums. Her bent bade, long nose, and shrivelled chin were unmistakable, and her shapeless brown garments were like those he remembered. The expression on her face was one of hideous malevolence and exultation, and when he awaked he could recall a croaking voice that persuaded and threatened. He must meet the Black Man, and go with them all to the throne of Azathoth at the center of irltinoatc chaos. 'That was what she said. He must sign the book of Azathoth in his own blood and take a new secret name now that his independent dclvings had gone so far. What kept him from going with her and Brown Jenkin and the other to the throne of Qiaos where the thin flutes pipe mindlessly was the fact that he had seen the name "Azathoth” in the Necronomicon, and knew it stood for a primal evil too horrible for description.

The old woman always appeared out of thin air near the comer where the downward slant met the inward slant. She seemed to crystallize at a point closer to the ceiling than to the floor, and every night she was a little nearer and more distinct before the dream shifted. Brown Jenkin, too, was always a little nearer at the last, and his yellowish-white fangs glistened shockingly in that unearthly violet phosphorescence. Its shrill loathsome tittering stuck more and more in Gilman’s head, and he could remember in the morning how it had pronounced the words "Azathoth” and "Nyarlathotep.”

In the deeper dreams everything was



likewise more distinct, and Gilman felt that the twilight abysses around him were those of the fourdi dimension. Those organic entities whose motions seemed least flagrantly irrelevant and unmotivated were probably projections of life-forms from our own planet, including human beings. What the others were in their own dimensional sjAere or spheres he dared not try to think. Two of the less irrelevantly moving things — a rather large congeries of iridescent, prolately spheroidal bubbles and a very much smaller polyhedron of unknown colors and rapidly shifting surface angles — seemed to take notice of him and follow him about or float ahead as he changed position among the titan prisms, labyrinths, cube-andplane clusters and quasi-buildings; and all the while the vague ^ridcing and roaring waxed louder and louder, as if approaching some monstrous climax of utterly unendurable intensity.

D uring the night of April 19-20tfi the new development occurred. Gilman was half involuntarily moving about in the twilight abysses with the bubblemass and the small polyhedron floating ahead, when he noticed the peculiarly regular angles formed by the edges of some gigantic neighboring prism-clusters. In another second he was out of the abyss and standing tremulously on a rodqr hillside bathed in intense, diffused green light. He was barefooted and in his nightclothes, and when he tried to walk discovered that he could scarcely lift his feet. A swirling vapor hid everything but tiie immediate sloping terrain from sight, and he shrank from the thought of the sounds that might surge out of that vapor.

Then he saw the two shapes laboriously crawling toward him — the old woman and the little furry thing. The crone strained up to her knees and managed to cross her

arms in a singular fashion, while Brown Jenkin pointed in a certain direction with a horribly anthropoid fore-paw which it raised with evident difficulty. Spurred by an impulse he did not originate, Gilman dragged himself forward along a course determined by the angle of the old woman’s arms and the direction of the small monstrosity’s paw, and before he had shuffled three steps he was back in the twilight abysses. Geometrical shapes seethed around him, and he fell dixzily and interminably. At last he woke in his bed in the crazily angled garret of the eldritch old house.

He was good for nothing that morning, and stayed away from all his classes. Some unknown attraction was pulling his eyes in a seemingly irrelevant direction, for he could not help staring at a certain vacant spot on the floor. As the day advanced, die focus of his unseeing eyes changed position, and by noon he had conquered the impulse to stare at vacancy. About two o’clock he went out for lundi, and as he threaded the narrow lanes of the dty he found himself turning always to the southeast Only an effort halted him at a cafeteria in Church Strot, and after the meal he felt the \mknown pull still more strongly.

He would have to consult a nerve specialist after all — ^perhaps there was a connection with his somnambulism — but meanwhile he might at least try to break die morbid spell himself. Undoubtedly he could still manage to walk away from the pull; so with great resolution he headed against it and dragged himself deliberately north along Garrison Street. By the time he had reached the bridge over the Miskatonic he was in a cold perspiration, and he clutched at the iron railing as he gazed upstream at the ill-regarded island whose regular lines of ancient



standing stones brooded sullenly in tiie afternoon sunlight

Then he gave a start. For there was a dearly visible living figure on that desolate island, and a second glance told him it was certainly the strange old woman whose sinister aspect had worked itself so disastrously into his dreams. The tall grass near her was moving, too, as if some other living thing were crawling close to the ground. When the old woman began to turn toward him he fled precipitately off the bridge and into the shelter of the town’s labyrinthin waterfront alleys. Distant though the island was, he felt that a monstrous and invindble evil could flow from the sardonic stare of that bent, andcnt figure in brown.

The southeastward pull still held, and only with tremendous resolution could Gilman drag himself into the old house and up the rickety stairs. For hours he sat silent and aimless, with his eyes shifting gradually westward. About six o’dock his ^arpened ears caught the whining prayers of Joe Maziu^ewicz two floors below, and in desperation he seized his hat and walked out into the sunsetgolden streets, letting the now directly southward pull carry him where it might. An hour later darkness found him in the open fields beyond Hangman’s Brook, with the glimmering spring stars shining ahead. The urge to walk was gradually changing to an urge to leap mystically into space, and suddenly he realized just where the source of the pull lay.

It was in the sky. A definite point among the stars had a claim on him and was calling him. Apparently it was a point somewhere between Hydra and Argo Navis, and he knew that he had been urged toward it ever since he had awaked soon after dawn. In the morning it had been imderfoot, and now it was roughly south but stealing toward the

west. What was the meaning of this new thing.^ Was he going mad? How long would it last? Again mustering his resolution, Gilman turned and dragged himself back to the sinister old house.

M azurewicz was waiting for him at the door, and seemed both anxious and reluctant to whisper some fresh bit of superstition. It was about the witch-light. Joe had been out celebrating the night before — it was Patriots’ Day in Massachusetts — and had come home after midnight. Looking up at the house from outside, he had thought at first that Gilman’s window was dark, but then he had seen the faint violet glow within. He wanted to warn the gentleman about that glow, for everybody in Arkham knew it was Keziah’s witch-light which played near Brown Jenkin and the ghost of the old crone herself. He had not mentioned this before, but now he must tell about it because it meant that Keziah and her long-toothed familiar were haunting the young gentleman. Sometimes he and Paul Qioynski and Landlord Dombrowski thought they saw that light seeping out of cracks in the sealed loft above the young gentleman’s room, but they had all agreed not to talk about that. However, it would be better for the gentleman to take another room and get a crucifix from some good priest like Father Iwanidd.

As the man rambled on, Gilman felt a nameless panic clutch at his throat. He knew that Joe must have been half drunk when he came home the night before; yet the mention of a violet light in the garret window was of frightful import. It was a lambent glow of this sort which always played about the old woman and the small furry thing in those lighter, sharper dreams which prefaced his plunge into unknown abysses, and the thought that a wakeful second person could see the



dream-luminance was utterly beyond sane harborage. Yet where had the fellow got such an odd notion.^ Had he himself talked as well as walked around the house in his sleep? No, Joe said, he had not — but he must check up on this. Perhaps Frank Elwood could tell him something, though he hated to ask.

Fever — wild dreams — somnambulism — illusions of sounds — a pull toward a point in the sky — and now a suspicion of insane sleep-talking! He must stop studying, see a nerve specialist, and take himself in hand. When he climbed to die second story he paused at Elwood's door but saw that the other youth was out. Reluctantly he continued up to his garret room and sat down in the dark. His gaze was still pulled to the southward, but he also found himself listening intently for some sound in the closed loft above, and half imagining that an evil violet light seeped down through an infinitesimal crack in the low, slanting ceiling.

That night as Gilman slept, the violet light broke upon him with heightened intensity, and the old witch and small furry thing, getting closer than ever before, mocked him with inhuman squeals and devilish gestures. He was glad to sink into the vaguely roaring twilight abysses, though the pursuit of that iridescent bubble-congeries and that kaleidoscopic little polyhedron was menacing and irritating. Then came the shift as vast converging planes of a slippery-looking substance loomed above and below him — a shift which ended in a flash of delirium and a blaze of unknown, alien light in which yellow, carmine, and indigo were madly and inextricably blended.

He was half lying on a high, fantastically balustraded terrace above a boundless jungle of outlandish, incredible peaks, balanced planes, domes, minarets, horizontal disks poised on pinnacles, and numberless forms of still greater wildness — some of stone and some of metal — which glittered gorgeously in the mixed, almost blistering glare from a polychromatic sky. Looking upward he saw three stupendous disks of flame, each of a different hue, and at a different height above an infinitely distant curving horizon of low mountains. Behind him tiers of higher terraces towered aloft as far as he could see. The city below stretched away to the limits of vision, and he hoped that no sound would well up from it.

The pavement from which he easily raised himself was of a veined, polished stone beyond his power to identify, and the tiles were cut in bizarre-angled shapes which struck him as less asymmetrical than based on some unearthly symmetry whose laws he could not comprehend. The balustrade was chesthigh, delicate, and fantastically wrought, while along the rail were ranged at short intervals little figures of grotesque design and exquisite workmanship. TTiey, like the whole balustrade, seemed to be made of some sort of shining metal whose color could not be guessed in the chaos of mixed effulgences, and their nature utterly defied conjecture. They represented some ridged barrel-shaped object with thin horizontal arms radiating spoke-like from a central ring and with vertical knobs or bulbs projecting from the head and base of the barrel. Each of these knobs was the hub of a system of five long, flat, triangularly tapering arms arranged around it like the arms of a starfish — ^nearly horizontal, but curving slightly away from the central barrel. The base of the bottom knob was fused to the long railing with so delicate a point of contact that several figures had been broken off and were missing. The figures were about four and a half inches in height, while the

W. T.— «



spiky arms gave them a maximvim diameter of about two and a half inches.

- When Gilman stood up, the tiles felt hot to his bare feet. He was wholly alone, and his first act was to walk to the balustrade and look dizzily down at the endless, Cyclopean city almost two thousand feet below. As he listened he thought a rhythmic confusion of faint musical pipings covering a wide tonal range welled up from the narrow streets beneath, and he wished he might discern the denizens of the place. The sight turned him giddy after a while, so that he would have fallen to the pavement had he not clutched instinctively at the lustrous balustrade. His right hand fell on one of the projecting figures, the touch seeming to steady him slightly. It was too much, however, for the exotic delicacy of the metal-work, and the spiky figure snapped off under his grasp. Still half dazed, he continued to clutch it as his other hand seized a vacant space on the smooth railing.

But now his over-sensitive ears caught something behind him, and he looked back across the level terrace. Approaching him softly though without apparent furtiveness were five figures, two of which were the sinister old woman and the fanged, furry little animal. The other three were what sent him unconscious; for they were living entities about eight feet high, shaped precisely like the spiky images on the balustrade, and propelling themselves by a spider-like wriggling of their lower set of starfish-arms.

G ilman awaked in his bed, drenched by a cold perspiration and with a smarting sensation in his face, hands and feet. Springing to the floor, he washed and dressed in frantic haste, as if it were necessary for him to get out of the house as quickly as possible. He did not know where he wished to go, but felt tfiat once W. T.— 7

more he would have to sacrifice his classes. The odd pull toward that spot in the sky between Hydra and Argo had abated, but another of even greater strength had taken its place. Now he felt that he must go north — infinitely north. He dreaded to cross the bridge that gave a view of the desolate island in the Miskatonic, so went over the Peabody Avenue bridge. Very often he stumbled, for his eyes and ears were chained to an extremely lofty point in the blank blue sky.

After about an hour he got himself under better control, and saw that he was far from the city. All around him stretched the bleak emptiness of salt marshes, while the narrow road ahead led to Innsmouth — that ancient, halfdeserted town which Arkham people were so curiously unwilling to visit. Though the northward pull had not diminished, he resisted it as he had resisted the other pull, and finally found tliat he could almost balance the one against the other. Plodding back to town and getting some coffee at a soda fountain, he dragged himself into the public library and browsed aimlessly among the lighter magazines. Once he met some friends who remarked how oddly sunburned he looked, but he did not tell them of his walk. At three o’clock he took some lunch at a restaurant, noting meanwhile that the pull had either lessened or divided itself. After that he killed the time at a cheap cinema show, seeing the inane performance over and over again without paying any attention to it.

About nine at night he drifted homeward and shuffled into the ancient house. Joe Mazurewicz was whining unintelligible prayers, and Gilman hastened up to his own garret chamber without pausing to see if Elwood was in. It was v/hen he turned on the feeble electric light that



the shock came. At once he saw there was something on the table which did not belong there, and a second look left no room for doubt. Lying on its side — for it could not stand up alone — was the exotic spiky figure which in his monstrous dream he had broken off the fantastic balustrade. No detail was missing. The ridged, barrel-shaped center, the thin radiating arms, the knobs at each end, and the flat, slightly outward-curving starfish-arms spreading from those knobs — all were there. In the electric light the color seemed to be a kind of iridescent gray veined with green; and Gilman could see amidst his horror and bewilderment that one of the knobs ended in a jagged break, corresponding to its former point of attachment to the dream-railing.

Only his tendency toward a dazed stupor prevented him from screaming aloud. This fusion of dream and reality was too much to bear. Still dazed, he clutched at the spiky thing and staggered downstairs to Landlord Dombrowski’s quarters. The whining prayers of the superstitious loomfixer were still sounding through the moldy halls, but Gilman did not mind them now. The landlord was in, and greeted him pleasantly. No, he had not seen that thing before and did not know anything about it. But his wife had said she found a funny tin thing in one of the beds when she fixed the rooms at noon, and maybe that was it. Dombrowski called her, and she waddled in. Yes, that was the thing. She had found it in the young gentleman’s bed — on the side next the wall. It had looked very queer to her, but of course the young gentleman had lots of queer things in his room — books and curios and pictures and markings on paper. She certainly knew nothing about it.

So Gilman climbed upstairs again in mental turmoil, convinced that he was either still dreaming or that his somnambulism had run to incredible extremes and led him to depredations in unknown places. Where had he got this outr6 thing.? He did not recall seeing it in any museum in Arkham. It must have been somewhere, though; and the sight of it as he snatched it in his sleep must have caused the odd dream-picture of the balustraded terrace. Next day he would make some very guarded inquiries — and perhaps see the nerve specialist.

Meanwhile he would try to keep track of his somnambulism. As he went upstairs and across the garret hall he sprinkled about some flour which he had borrowed — ^with a frank admission as to its purpose — from the landlord. He had stopped at Elwood’s door on the way, but had found all dark within. Entering his room, he placed the spiky thing on the table, and lay down in complete mental and physical exhaustion without pausing to undress. From the closed loft above the slanting ceiling he thought he heard a faint scratching and padding, but he was too disorganized even to mind it. That cryptical pull from the north was getting very strong again, though it seemed now to come from a lower place in the sky.

In the dazzling violet light of dream the old woman and the fanged, furry thing came again and with a greater distinctness than on any former occasion. This time tliey actually reached him, and he felt the crone’s withered claws clutching at him. He was pulled out of bed and into empty space, and for a moment he heard a rhythmic roaring and saw the twilight amorphousness of the vague abysses seething around him. But that moment was very brief, for presently he was in a crude, windowless little space with rough beams and planks rising to a peak just above his head, and with a curious slanting floor underfoot. Propped level



on that floor were low cases full of books of every degree of antiquity and disintegration, and in the center were a table and bench, both apparently fastened in place. Small objects of unknown shape and nature were ranged on the tops of the cases, and in the flaming violet light Gilman thought he sav/ a counterpart of the spiky image which had puzzled him so horribly. On the left the floor fell abruptly away, leaving a black triangular gulf out of which, after a second’s dry rattling, there presently climbed the hateful little furry thing with the yellow fangs and bearded human face.

The evilly grinning beldame still clutched him, and beyond the table stood a figure he had never seen before — a tall, lean man of dead black coloration but without the slightest sign of negroid features; wholly devoid of either hair or beard, and wearing as his only garment a shapeless robe of some heavy black fabric. His feet were indistinguishable because of the table and bench, but he must have been shod, since there was a clicking whenever he changed position. The man did not speak, and bore no trace of expression on his small, regular features. He merely pointed to a book of prodigious size which lay open on the table, while the beldame thrust a huge gray quill into Gilman’s right hand. Over everything was a pall of intensely maddening fear, and the climax was reached when the furry thing ran up the dreamer’s clothing to his shoulders and then down his left arm, finally biting him sharply in the wrist just below his cuff. As the blood spurted from this wound Gilman lapsed into a faint.

H e awaked on the morning of the 22nd with a pain in his left wrist, and saw that his cuff was brown with dried blood. His recollections were very

confused, but the scene with the black man in the unknown space stood out vividly. The rats must have bitten him as he slept, giving rise to the climax of that frightful dream. Opening the door, he saw tliat the flour on the corridor floor was undisturbed except for the huge prints of the loutish fellov/ who roomed at the other end of the garret. So he had not been sleep-walking this time. But something would have to be done about those rats. He would speak to the landlord about them. Again he tried to stop up the hole at the base of the slanting wall, wedging in a candlestick which seemed of about the right size. His ears were ringing horribly, as if with the residual echoes of some horrible noise heard in dreams.

As he bathed and changed clothes he tried to recall what he had dreamed after the scene in the violet-litten space, but nothing definite would crystallize in his mind. 'That scene itself must have corresponded to the sealed loft overhead, which had begun to attack his imagination so violently, but later impressions were faint and hazy. There were suggestions of the vague, twilight abysses, and of still vaster, blacker abysses beyond them — abysses in which all fixed suggestions were absent. He had been taken there by the bubble-congeries and the little polyhedron which always dogged him; but they, like himself, had changed to wisps of mist in this farther void of ultimate blackness. Something else had gone on ahead — a larger wisp which now and then condensed into nameless approximations of form — and he tliought that their progress had not been in a straight line, but rather along the alien curves and spirals of some ethereal vortex which obeyed laws unknown to the physics and mathematics of any conceivable cosmos. Eventually there had been a hint of vast.



leaping shadows, of a monstrous, halfacoustic pulsing, and of the thin, monotonous piping of an unseen flute — but that was all. Gilman decided he had picked up that last conception from what he had read in the Necronomicon about the mindless entity Azathoth, which rules all time and space from a curiously environed black throne at the center of Qiaos.

When the blood was washed away the wrist wound proved very slight, and Gilman puzzled over the location of the two tiny punctures. It occurred to him that there was no blood on the bedspread where he had Iain — which was very curious in view of the amount on his skin and cuff. Had he been sleep-walking within his room, and had the rat bitten him as he sat in some chair or paused in some less rational position? He looked in every corner for brownish drops or stains, but did not find any. He had better, he thought, sprinkle flour within the room as well as outside the door — though after all no further proof of his sleep-walking was needed. He knew he did walk — and the thing to do now was to stop it. He must ask Frank Elwood for help. This morning the strange pulls from space seemed lessened, though they were replaced by another sensation even more inexplicable. It was a vague, insistent impulse to fly away from his present situation, but held not a hint of the specific direction in which he wished to fly. As he picked up the strange spiky image on the table he thought the older northward pull grew a trifle stronger; but even so, it was wholly overruled by the newer and more bewildering urge.

He took the spiky image down to Elwood’s room, steeling himself against the whines of the loom-fixer which welled up from the ground floor. Elwood was in, thank heaven, and appeared to be stirring about. There was time for a little conversation before leaving for breakfast and college; so Gilman hurriedly poured forth an account of his recent dreams and fears. His host was very sympathetic, and agreed that sometliing ought to be done. He was shocked by his guest’s drawn, haggard aspect, and noticed the queer, abnormal-looking sunburn which others had remarked during the past week. There was not much, though, that he could say. He had not seen Gilman on any sleep-walking expedition, and had no idea what the curious image could be. He had, though, heard the French-Canadian who lodged just under Gilman talking to Mazurewicz one evening. They were telling each other how badly they dreaded the coming of Walpurgis Night, now only a few days off; and were exchanging pitying comments about the poor, doomed young gentleman. Desrochers, the fellow under Gilman’s room, had spoken of nocturnal footsteps shod and unshod, and of the violet light he saw one night when he had stolen fearfully up to peer through Gilman’s keyhole. He had not dared to peer, he told Mazurewicz, after he had glimpsed that light through the cracks aroimd the door. There had been soft talking, too — and as he began to describe it his voice had sunk to an inaudible whisper.

Elwood could not imagine what had set these superstitious creatures gossiping, but supposed their imaginations had been roused by Gilman’s late hours and somnolent walking and talking on the one hand, and by the nearness of traditionallyfeared May-Eve on the other hand. That Gilman talked in his sleep was plain, and it was obviously from Desrocher’s keyhole-listenings that the delusive notion of the violet dream-light had got abroad. These simple people were quick to imagine they had seen any odd thing they had heard about. As for a plan of action —



Gilman had better move down to Elwood’s room and avoid sleeping alone. Elwood would, if awake, rouse him whenever he began to talk or rise in his sleep. Very soon, too, he must see the specialist. Meanwhile they would take the spiky image around to the various museums and to certain professors; seeking identification and stating that it had been found in a public rubbish-can. Also, Dombrowski must attend to the poisoning of those rats in the walls.

B raced up by Elwood’s companionship, Gilman attended classes that day. Strange urges still tugged at him, but he could sidetrack them with considerable success. During a free period he showed the queer image to several professors, all of whom were intensely interested, though none of them could shed any light upon its nature or origin. That night he slept on a couch which Elwood had had the landlord bring to the secondstory room, and for the first time in weeks was wholly free from disquieting dreams. But the feverishness still hung on, and the whines of the loom-fixer were an unnerving influence.

During the next few days Gilman enjoyed an almost perfect immunity from morbid manifestations. He had, Elwood said, showed no tendency to talk or rise in his sleep; and meanwhile the landlord was putting rat-poison everywhere. The only disturbing element was the talk among the superstitious foreigners, whose imaginations had become highly excited. Mazurewicz was always trying to make him get a crucifix, and finally forced one upon him which he said had been blessed by the good Father Iwanicki. Desrochers, too, had something to say; in fact, he insisted tliat cautious steps had sounded in the now vacant room above him on the first and second nights of Gilman’s absence from it. Paul Qioynski thought he heard sounds in the halls and on the stairs at night, and claimed that his door had been softly tried, while Mrs. Dombrowski vowed she had seen Brown Jenkin for the first time since All-Hallows. But such naive reports could mean very little, and Gilman let the cheap metal crucifix hang idly from a knob on his host’s dresser.

For three days Gilman and Elwood canvassed the local museums in an effort to identify the strange spiky image, but always without success. In every quarter, however, interest was intense; for the utter alienage of the thing was a tremendous challenge to scientific curiosity. One of the small radiating arms was broken off and subjected to chemical analysis. Professor Ellery found platinum, iron and tellurium in the strange alloy; but mixed with these were at least three other apparent elements of high atomic weight which chemistry was absolutely powerless to classify. Not only did they fail to correspond with any human element, but they did not even fit the vacant places reserved for probable elements in the periodic system. The mystery remains unsolved to this day, though the image is on exhibition at the museum of Miskatonic University.

O N THE morning of April 27th a fresh rat-hole appeared in the room where Gilman was a guest, but Dombrowski tinned it up during the day. 'The poison was not having much effect, for saatchmgs and scurryings in the walls were virtually undiminished.

Elwood was out late that night, and Gilman waited up for him. He did not wish to go to sleep in a room alone — especially since he thought he had glimpsed in the evening twilight the repellent old woman whose image had become so horribly transferred to his dreams. He won102


dered who she was, and what had been near her rattling the tin cans in a rubbish-heap at the mouth of a squalid courtyard. The crone had seemed to notice him and leer evilly at him — though perhaps this was merely his imagination.

The next day both youths felt very tired, and knew they would sleep like logs when night came. In the evening they drowsily discussed the mathematical studies which had so completely and perhaps harmfully engrossed Gilman, and speculated about the linkage with ancient magic and folklore which seemed so darkly probable. They spoke of old Ke2iah Mason, and Elwood agreed that Gilman had good scientific grounds for thinking she might have stumbled on strange and significant information. The hidden cults to which these witches belonged often guarded and handed down surprizing secrets from elder, forgotten eons; and it was by no means impossible that Keziah had actually mastered the art of passing through dimensional gates. Tradition emphasizes the uselessness of material barriers in halting a witch’s motions, and who can say what underlies the old tales of broomstidc rides through the night?

Whether a modem student could ever gain similar powers from mathematical research alone, was still to be seen. Success, Gilman added, might lead to dangerous and xmthinkable situations; for who could foretell the conditions pervading an adjacent but normally inaccessible dimension? On the other hand, the picturesque possibilities were enormous. Time could not exist in certain belts of space, and by entering and remaining in such a belt one might preserve one’s life and age indefinitely; never suffering organic metabolism or deterioration except for slight amounts incurred during visits to one’s own or similar planes. One

might, for example, pass into a timeless dimension and emerge at some remote period of the earth’s history as young as before.

Whether anybody had ever managed to do this, one could hardly conjecture with any degree of authority. Old legends are hazy and ambiguous, and in historic times all attempts at crossing forbidden gaps seem complicated by strange and terrible alliances with beings and messengers from outside. There was the immemorial figure of the deputy or messenger of hidden and terrible powers — the "Black Man’’ of the witch-cult, and the "Nyarlathotep" of the Necronomicon. There was, too, the baffling problem of the lesser messengers or intermediaries — the quasi-animals and queer hybrids which legend depicts as witches’ familiars. As Gilman and Elwood retired, too sleepy to argue further, they heard Joe.Mazurewicz reel into the house half drunk, and shuddered at the desperate wildness of his whining prayers.

That night Gilman saw the violet light again. In his dream he had heard a scratching and gnawing in the partitions, and thought that some one fiunbled clumsily at the latch. Then he saw the old woman and the small furry thing advancing toward him over the carpeted floor. The beldame’s face was alight with inhuman exultation, and the little yellowtoothed morbidity tittered modzingly as it pointed at the hearty-sleeping form of Elwood on the other couch across the room. A paralysis of fear stifled all attempts to cry out. As once before, the hideous crone seized Gilman by the shoulders, yanking him out of bed and into empty space. Again the infinitude of the shrieking abysses flashed past him, but in another second he thought he was in a dark, muddy, unknown alley of fetid odors with the rotting walls of ancient houses towering up on every hand.



Ahead was the robed black man he had seen in the peaked space in the other dream, while from a lesser distance the old woman was beckoning and grimacing imperiously. Brown Jenkin was rubbing itself with a kind of affectionate playfulness around the ankles of the black man, which the deep mud largely concealed. There was a dark open doorway on the right, to which the black man silently pointed. Into this the grinning crone started, dragging Gilman after her by his pajama sleeves. There were evil-smelling staircases which creaked ominously, and on which the old woman seemed to radiate a faint violet light; and finally a door leading off a landing. The crone fumbled with the latch and pushed the door open, motioning to Gilman to wait, and disappearing inside the black aperture.

The youth’s over-sensitive ears caught a hideous strangled cry, and presently the beldame came out of the room bearing a.small, senseless form which she thrust at the dreamer as if ordering him to carry it. The sight of this form, and the expression on its face, broke the spell. Still too dazed to cry out, he plunged recklessly down the noisome staircase and into the mud outside; halting only when seized and choked by the waiting black man. As consciousness departed he heard the faint, shrill tittering of the fanged, ratlike abnormality.

O N THE morning of the 29th Gilman awaked into a maelstrom of horror. The instant he opened his eyes he knew something was terribly wrong, for he was back in his old garret room with the slanting wall and ceiling, sprawled on the now unmade bed. His throat was aching mexplicably, and as he struggled to a sitting posture he saw with growing fnght that his feet and pajama bottoms

were brown with caked mud. For the moment his recollections were hopelessly hazy, but he knew at least that he must have been sleep-walking. Elwood had been lost too deeply in slumber to hear and stop him. On the floor were confused muddy prints, but oddly enough they did not extend all the way to the door. The more Gilman looked at them, the more peculiar they seemed; for in addition to those he could recognize as his there were some smaller, almost round markings — such as the legs of a large chair or a table might make, except that most of them tended to be divided into halves. There were also some curious muddy rat-tracks leading out of a fresh hole and back into it again. Utter bewilderment and the fear of madness racked Gilman as he staggered to the door and saw that there were no muddy prints outside. The more he remembered of his hideous dream the more terrified he felt, and it added to his desperation to hear Joe Mazurewicz chanting mournfully two floors below.

Descending to Elwood’s room he roused his still-sleeping host and began telling of how he had found himself, but Elwood could form no idea of what might really have happened. Where Gilman could have been, how he got back to his room without making tracks in the hall, and how the muddy, fumiture-like prints came to be mixed with his in the garret chamber, were wholly beyond conjecture. Then there were those dark, livid marks on his throat, as if he had tried to strangle himself. He put his hands up to them, but found that they did not even approximately fit. While they were talking, Desrochers dropped in to say that he had heard a terrific dattering overhead in the daik small hours. No, there had been no one on the stairs after midnight, though just before midnight he had heard faint



footfalls in the garret, and cautiously descending steps he did not like. It was, he added, a very bad time of year for Arkham. The young gentleman had better be sure to wear the crucifix Joe Mazurewicz had given him. Even the daytime was not safe, for after dawn there had been strange sounds in the house — especially a thin, childish wail hastily choked off.

Gilman mechanically attended classes that morning, but was wholly unable to fix his mind on his studies. A mood of hideous apprehension and expectancy had seized him, and he seemed to be awaiting the fall of some annihilating blow. At noon he lunched at the University Spa, picking up a paper from the next seat as he waited for dessert. But he never ate that dessert; for an item on the paper’s first page left him limp, wild-eyed, and able only to pay his dieck and stagger back to Elwood’s room.

There had been a strange kidnapping the night before in Ome’s Gangway, and the two-year-old child of a clod-like laundry worker named Anastasia Wolejko had completely vanished from sight. The mother, it appeared, had feared the event for some time; but the reasons she assigned for her fear were so grotesque that no one took them seriously. She had, she said, seen Brown Jenkin about die place now and then ever since early in March, and knew from its grimaces and titterings that little Ladislas must be marked for sacrifice at the awful Sabbat on Walpurgis Night. She had asked her neighbor Mary Czanek to sleep in the room and try to protect the child, but Mary had not dared. She could not tell the police, for they never believed such things. Children had been taken that way every year ever since she could remember. And her friend Pete Stowacki would not help because he wanted the child out of the way.

But what threw Gilman into a cold perspiration was the report of a pair of revellers who had been walking past the mouth of the gangway just after midnight. They admitted they had been drunk, but both vowed they had seen a crazily dressed trio furtively entering the dark passageway. There had, they said, been a huge robed negro, a little old woman in rags, and a young white man in his nightclothes. The old woman had been dragging the youth, while around the feet of the negro a tame rat was rubbing and weaving in the brown mud.

G ilman sat in a daze all the afternoon, and Elwood — who had meanwhile seen the papers and formed terrible conjectures from them — found him thus when he came home. This time neither could doubt but that something hideously serious was closing in around them. Between the fantasms of nightmare and the realities of the objective world a monstrous and unthinkable relationship was crystallizing, and only stupendous vigilance could avert still more direful developments. Gilman must see a specialist sooner or later, but not just now, when all the papers were full of this kidnapping business.

Just what had really happened was maddeningly obscure, and for a moment both Gilman and Elwood exchanged whispered theories of the wildest kind. Had Gilman unconsciously succeeded better than he knew in his studies of space and its dimensions? Had he actually slipped outside our sphere to points unguessed and unimaginable? Where — ^if anywhere — ^had he been on those nights of demoniac alienage? The roaring twilight abysses — the green hillside — the blistering terrace — the pulls from the stars — the ultimate black vortex — the black man — the muddy alley and the



stairs — the old witch and the fanged, furry horror — the bubble-congeries and the little polyhedron — the strange sunburn — the wrist wound — the unexplained image — the muddy feet — the throat-marks — the tales and fears of the superstitious foreigners — what did all this mean? To what extent could the laws of sanity apply to such a case?

There was no sleep for either of them that night, but next day they both cut classes and drowsed. This was April 30th, and with the dusk would come the hellish Sabbat-time which all the foreigners and the superstitious old folk feared. Mazurewicz came home at six o’clock and said people at the mill were whispering that the Walpurgis-revels would be held in the dark ravine beyond Meadow Hill where the old white stone stands in a place queerly devoid of all plant life. Some of them had even told the police and advised them to look there for the missing Wolejko child, but they did not believe anything would be done. Joe insisted that the poor young gentleman wear his nickel-chained crucifix, and Gilman put it on and dropped it inside his shirt to humor the fellow.

Late at night the two youths sat drowsing in their chairs, lulled by the praying of the loom-fixer on the floor below. Gilman listened as he nodded, his preternaturally sharpened hearing seeming to strain for some subtle, dreaded murmur beyond the noises in the ancient house. Unwholesome recollections of things in the Necronomkon and the Black Book welled up, and he found himself swaying to infandous rhythms said.to pertain to the blackest ceremonies of the Sabbat and to have an origin outside the time and space we comprehend.

Presently he realized what he was listening for — the hellish chant of the celebrants in the distant black valley. How

did he know so much about what they expected? How did he know the time when Nahab and her acol)^e were due to bear the brimming bowl which would follow the black cock and the black goat? He saw that Elwood had dropped asleep, and tried to call out and waken him. Something, however, closed his throat. He was not his own master. Had he signed the black man’s book after all?

Then his fevered, abnormal hearing caught the distant, wind-borne notes. Over miles of hill and field and alley they came, but he recognized them none the less. The fires must be lit, and the dancers must be starting in. How could he keep himself from going? What was it that had enmeshed him? Mathematics — folklore — the house — old Keziah — Brown Jenkin... and now he saw that there was a fresh rat-hole in the wall near his couch. Above the distant chanting and the nearer praying of Joe Mazurewicz came another sound — a stealthy, determined scratching in the partitions. He hoped the electric lights would not go out. Then he saw the fanged, bearded little face in the rat-hole — the accursed little face which he at last realized bore such a shocking, mocking resemblance to old Keziah’s — and heard the faint fumbling at the door.

The screaming twilight abysses flashed before him, and he felt himself helpless in the formless grasp of the iridescent bubble-congeries. Ahead raced the small, kaleidoscopic polyhedron, and all through the churning void there was a heightening and acceleration of the vague tonal pattern which seemed to foreshadow some unutterable and unendurable climax. He seemed to know what was coming — the monstrous burst of Walpurgis-rhythm in whose cosmic timbre would be concentrated all the primal, ultimate space-time seethings which lie behind the massed



spheres of matter and sometimes break forth in measured reverberations that penetrate faintly to every layer of entity and give hideous significance throughout the worlds to certain dreaded periods.

But all this vanished in a second. He was again in the aamped, violet-litten peaked space with the slanting floor, the low cases of ancient books, the bench and table, the queer objects, and the triangular gulf at one side. On the table lay a small white figure — an infant boy, xmclothed and unconscious — while on the other side stood the monstrous, leering old woman with a gleaming, grotesquehafted knife in her right hand, and a queerly proportioned pale metal bowl covered with curiously chased designs and having delicate lateral handles in her left. She was intoning some croaking ritual in a language which Gilman could not understand, but which seemed like something guardedly quoted in the Necronomicon.

A s THE scene grew clear he saw the an-. dent crone bend forward and extend the empty bowl across the table — and unable to control his own motions, he reached far forward and took it in both hands, noticing as he did so its comparative lightness. At the same moment the disgusting form of Brown Jenkin scrambled up over the brink of the triangular black gulf on his left. The crone now motioned him to hold the bowl in a certain position while she raised the huge, grotesque knife above the small white victim as high as her right hand could reach. The fanged, furry thing began tittering a continuation of thq» unknown ritual, while the witch croaked loathsome responses. Gilman felt a gnawing, poignant abhorrence shoot through his mental and emotional paralysis, and the light metal bowl shook in his grasp. A second later the downward motion of the knife broke the spell completely, and he dropped the bowl with a resounding belllike clangor while his hands darted out frantically to stop the monstrous deed.

In an instant he had edged up the slanting floor around the end of the table and wrenched the knife from the old woman’s claws; sending it clattering over the brink of the narrow triangular gulf. In another instant, however, matters were reversed; for those murderous claws had locked themselves tightly around his own throat, while the wrinkled face was twisted with insane fury. He felt the chain of the cheap crucifix grinding into his neck, and in his peril wondered how the sight of the object itself would affect the evil creature. Her strength was altogether superhuman, but as she continued her choking he reached feebly in his shirt and drew out the metal symbol, snapping the chain and pulling it free.

At sight of the device the witch seemed struck with panic, and her grip relaxed long enough to give Gilman a chance to break it entirely. He pulled the steel-like claws from his neck, and would have dragged the beldame over the edge of the gulf had not the claws received a fresh access of strength and closed in again. This time he resolved to reply in kind, and his own hands reached out for the creature’s throat. Before she saw what he was doing he had the chain of the crucifix twisted about her neck, and a moment later he had tightened it enough to cut off her breatli. Duiing her last struggle he felt something bite at his ankle, and saw that Brown Jenkin had come to her aid. With one savage kick he sent the morbidity over the edge of the gulf and heard it whimper on some level far below.

Whether he had killed the ancient crone he did not know, but he let her rest



on the floor where she had fallen. Then, as he turned away, he saw on the table a sight which nearly snapped the last thread of his reason. Brown Jenkin, tough of sinew and with four tiny hands of demoniac dexterity, had been busy while the witch was throttling him, and his efforts had been in vain. What he had prevented the knife from doing to the victim’s chest, the yellow fangs of the furry blasphemy had done to a wrist — and the bowl so lately on the floor stood full beside the small lifeless body.

In his dream-delirium Gilman heard the hellish alien-rhythmed chant of the Sabbat coming from an infinite distance, and knew the black man must be there. Confused memories mixed themselves with his mathematics, and he believed his subconscious mind held the angles which he needed to guide him back to the normal world alone and unaided for the first time. He felt sure he was in the immemorially sealed loft above his own room, but whether he could ever escape through the slanting floor or the long-stopped egress he doubted greatly. Besides, would not an escape from a dream-loft bring him merely into a dream-house — an abnormal projection of the actual place he sought? He was wholly bewildered as to the relation betwixt dream and reality in all his experiences.

The passage through the vague abysses would be frightful, for the Walpurgisrhythm would be vibrating, and at last he would have to hear that hitherto-veiled cosmic pulsing which he so mortally dreaded. Even now he could detect a low, monstrous shaking whose tempo he suspected all too well. At Sabbat-time it always mounted and reached through to the worlds to summon the initiate to nameless rites. Half the chants of the Sabbat were patterned on this faintly overheard pulsing which no earthly ear

could endure in its imveiled spatial fullness. Gilman wondered, too, whether he could trust his instincts to take him back to the right part of space. How could he be sure he would not land on that greenlitten hillside of a far planet, on the tessellated terrace above the city of tentacled monsters somewhere beyond the galaxy, or in the spiral black vortices of that ultimate void of Chaos where reigns the mindless demon-sultan Azathoth?

Just before he made the plunge the violet light went out and left him in utter blackness. The witch — old Keziah — Nahab — that must have meant her death. And mixed with the distant chant of the Sabbat and the whimpers of Brown Jenkin in the gulf below he thought he heard another and wilder whine from unknown depths. Joe Mazurewicz — the prayers against the Crawling Chaos now turning to an inexplicably triumphant shriek — worlds of sardonic actuality impinging on vortices of febrile dream — la! Shub-Niggurath! The Goat with a Thousand Young....

T hey found Gilman on the floor of his queerly-angled old garret room long before dawn, for the terrible cry had brought Desrochers and Choynski and Dombrowski and Mazurewicz at once, and had even wakened the soundly sleeping Elwood in his chair. He was alive, and with open, staring eyes, but seemed largely unconscious. On his throat were the marks of murderous hands, and on his left ankle was a distressing rat-bite. His clotliing was badly rumpled, and Joe’s crucifix was missing. Elwood trembled, afraid even to speculate on what new form hs friend’s sleep-walking had taken. Mazurewicz seemed half dazed because of a "sign” he said he had had in response to his prayers, and he crossed himself frantically when the squealing



and whimpering of a rat sounded from beyond the slanting partition.

When the dreamer was settled on his couch in Elwood’s room they sent for Doctor Malkowski — a local practitioner who would repeat no tales where they might prove embarrassing — and he gave Gilman two hypodermic injections which caused him to relax in something like natural drowsiness. During the day the patient regained consciousness at times and whispered his newest dream disjointedly to Elwood. It was a painful process, and at its very start brought out a fresh and disconcerting fact.

Gilman — whose ears had so lately possessed an abnormal sensitiveness — ^was now stone-deaf. Doctor Malkowski, summoned again in haste, told Elwood that both ear-drums were ruptured, as if by the impact of some stupendous sound intense beyond all human conception or endurance. How such a sound could have been heard in the last few hours without arousing all the Miskatonic Valley was more than the honest physician could say.

Elwood wrote his part of the colloquy on paper, so that a fairly easy communication was maintained. Neither knew what to make of the whole chaotic business, and deaded it would be better if they thought as little as possible about it. Both, though, agreed that they must leave this ancient and accursed house as soon as 11 could be arranged. Evening papers spoke ot a police raid on some curious revellers in a ravine beyond Meadow Mill just before dawn, and mentioned that the white stone there was an object of agelong superstitious regard. Nobody had been caught, but among the scattering fugitives had been glimpsed a huge negro. In another column it was stated that no trace of the missing child Ladislas Wolejko had been found.

T he crowning horror came that very night. Elwood will never forget it, and was forced to stay out of college the rest of the term because of the resulting nervous breakdown. He had thought he heard rats in the partitions all the evening, but paid little attention to them. Then, long after both he and Gilman had retired, the atrocious shrieking began. Elwood jumped up, turned on the lights, and rushed over to his guest’s couch. The occupant was emitting sounds of veritably inhuman nature, as if racked by some torment beyond description. He was writhing under the bedclothes, and a great red stain was beginning to appear on the blankets.

Elwood scarcely dared to touch him, but gradually the screaming and writhing subsided. By this time Dombrowski, Choynski, Desrochers, Mazurewicz, and the top-floor lodger were all crowding into the doorway, and the landlord had sent his wife back to telephone for Doctor Malkowski. Everybody shrieked when a large rat-like form suddenly jumped out from beneath the ensanguined bedclothes and scuttled across the floor to a fresh, open hole close by. When the doctor arrived and began to pull down those frightful covers Walter Gilman was dead.

It would be barbarous to do more than suggest what had killed Gilman. There had been virtually a tunnel through his body — something had eaten his heart out. Dombrowski, frantic at the failure or his rat-poisoning efforts, cast aside all thought of his lease and within a week had moved with all his older lodgers to a dingy but less ancient house in Walnut Street. The worst thing tor a white was keeping Joe Mazurewicz quiet; for the brooding loomfixer would never stay sobei, and was constantly whining and muttering about spearal and terrible thmgs.

It seems that on that last hideous night



Joe had stooped to look at the crimson rat-tracks which led from Gilman’s couch to the near-by hole. On the carpet they were veiy indistinct, but a piece of open flooring intervened between the carpet’s edge and the baseboard. There Mazurewicz had found something monstrous — or thought he had, for no one else could quite agree with him despite the undeniable queerness of the prints. 'The tracks on the flooring were certainly vastly unlike the average prints of a rat, but even Choynski and Desrochers would not admit that they were like the prints of four tiny human hands.

'The house was never rented again. As soon as Dombrowski left it the pall of its final desolation began to descend, for people shunned it both on account of its old reputation and because of the new fetid odor. Perhaps the ex-landlord’s rat-poison had worked after all, for not long after his departure the place became a neighborhood nuisance. Health officials traced the smell to the closed spaces above and beside the eastern garret room, and agreed that the number of dead rats must be enormous. 'They decided, however, that it was not worth their while to hew open and disinfect the long-sealed spaces; for the fetor would soon be over, and the locality was not one which encouraged fastidious standards. Indeed, there were always vague local tales of unexplained stenches upstairs in the Witch-House just after May-Eve and Hallowmass. The neighbors acquiesced in the inertia — but the fetor none the less formed an additional count against the place. Toward the last the house was condemned as a habitation by the building inspector.

Gilman’s dreams and their attendant circumstances have never been explained. Elwood, whose thoughts on the entire episode are sometimes almost maddening, came back to college the next autumn and

graduated in the following June. He found the spectral gossip of the town much diminished, and it is indeed a fact that — notwithstanding certain reports of a ghostly tittering in the deserted house which lasted almost as long as that edifice itself — no fresh appearances either of Old Keziah or of Brown Jenkin have been muttered of since Gilman’s death. It is rather fortimate that Elwood was not in Arkham in that later year when certain events abruptly renewed the local whispers about elder horrors. Of course he heard about the matter afterward and suffered untold torments of black and bewildered speculation; but even that was not as bad as actual nearness and several possible sights would have been.

I N MARCH, 1931, a gale wrecked the roof and great chimney of the vacant Witch-House, so that a chaos of crumbling bricks, blackened, moss-grown shingles, and rotting planks and timbers crashed down into the loft and broke through the floor beneath. The whole attic story was choked with debris from above, but no one took the trouble to touch the mess before the inevitable razing of the decrepit structure. That ultimate step came in the following December, and it was when Gilman’s old room was cleared out by reluctant, apprehensive workmen that the gossip began.

Among the rubbish which had crashed through the ancient slanting ceiling were several things which made the workmen pause and call in the police. Later the police in turn called in the coroner and several professors from the university. There were bones — badly crushed and splintered, but clearly recognizable as human — whose manifestly modern date conflicted puzzlingly with the remote period at which their only possible lurking place, the low, slant-floored loft over110

miRD TALES

head, had supposedly been sealed from all human access. The coroner’s physician decided that some belonged to a small child, while certain others — found mixed with shreds of rotten brownish cloth — ■ belonged to a rather imdersized, bent female of advanced years. Careful sifting of debris also disclosed many tiny bones of rats caught in the collapse, as well as older rat-bones gnawed by small fangs in a fashion now and then highly productive of controversy and reflection.

Other objects found included the mangled fragments of many books and papers, together with a yellowish dust left from the total disintegration of still older books and papers. All, without exception, appeared to deal with black magic in its most advanced and horrible forms; and the evidently recent date of certain items is still a mystery as unsolved as that of the modern human bones. An even greater mystery is the absolute homogeneity of the crabbed, archaic writing found on a wide range of papers whose conditions and v.'atermarks suggest age differences of at least 150 to 200 years. To some, though, the greatest mystery of all is the variety of utterly inexplicable objects — ■ objects whose shapes, materials, types of workmanship, and purposes baffle all conjecture — found scattered amidst the wreckage in evidently diverse states of injury. One of these things: — which excited several Miskatonic professors profoundly — is a badly damaged monstrosity plainly resembling the strange image which Gilman gave to the college museum, save that it is larger, wrought of some peculiar bluish stone instead of metal, and possessed of a singularly angled pedestal with undecipherable hieroglyphics.

Archeologists and anthropologists are still trying to explain the bizarre designs chased on a crushed bowl of light metal whose inner side bore ominous brownish

Stains when found. Foreigners and credulous grandmothers are equally garrulous about the modern nickel crucifix with broken chain mixed in the rubbish and shiveringly identified by Joe Mazurewicz as that which he had given poor Gilman many years before. Some believe this crucifix was dragged up to the sealed loft by rats, while others think it must have been on the floor in some corner of Gilman’s old room all the time. Still others, including Joe himself, have theories too wild and fantastic for sober credence.

When the slanting wall of Gilman’s room was torn out, the once sealed triangular space between that partition and the house’s north wall was found to contain much less structural debris, even in proportion to its size, than the room itself; though it had a ghastly layer of older materials which paralyzed the wreckers with horror. In brief, the floor was a veritable ossuary of the bones of small children — some fairly modern, but others extending back in infinite gradations to a period so remote that crumbling was almost complete. On this deep bony layer rested a knife of great size, obvious antiquity, and grotesque, ornate, and exotic design — above which the debris was piled.

In the midst of this debris, w'edged between a fallen plank and a cluster of cemented bricks from the ruined chimney, v/as an object destined to cause more bafflement, veiled fright, and openly superstitious talk in Arkham than anything else discovered in the haunted and acairsed building. This object was the partly crushed skeleton of a huge diseased rat, whose abnormalities of form are still a topic of debate and source of singular reticence among the members of Miskatonic’s department of comparative anatomy. Very little concerning this skeleton has leaked out, but the workmen who



found it whisper in shocked tones about the long, brownish hairs with which it was associated.

The bones of the tiny paws, it is rumored, imply prehensile characteristics more typical of a diminutive monkey than of a rat, while the small skull with its savage yellow fangs is of the utmost

anomalousness, appearing from certain angles like a miniature, monstrously degraded parody of a human skull. The workmen crossed themselves in fright when they came upon this blasphemy, but later burned candles of gratitude in St. Stanislaus’ Church because of the shrill, ghostly tittering they felt they would never hear again.

Vhe

of the Dead

By ROBERT B. GRAY

When the moon grows thin with his ribald grin And rots ere he yet may die.

When the fetid clouds like Death’s own shrouds Weave grave-cloths for the sky.

And the pulsing bane of Hell’s red rain Goes drumming and fifing by,

'Then the graveyards yawn, and the devil’s spawn Come grinning forth to their dance:

Lipless, they kiss — but a horrid hiss Keeps time with their jolting prance.

While sockets deep with Death’s black sleep Give shadowy glance for glance.

In the gloom and the murk, and with fearsome smirk, They dance the Hallowtide through, —

Lost souls who default the creditor vault And cheat old Death of his due.

'They range the girth of a shuddering earth,

'This ghastly, carrion crew.

Till the moon grows dim, and the dawnlight grim Leers that the night must die.

'Then the revels pall as the dank graves call —

While slinking back to the sky.

The dire refrain of Hell’s red rain Goes drumming and fifing by!

bbo'Sathla

By CLARK ASHTON SMITH

A bizarre fantasy — a crystal-gazer goes back through time to attain the beginning of all things

... For Ubbo-Sathla is the source and the end. Before the coming of Zhothaqquah or Yok-Zothoth or Kthulhut from the stars, Ubbo-Sathla dwelt in the steaming fens of the new-made Earth: a mass without head or members, spawning the gray, formless efts of the prime and the grisly proto- ^pes of terrene life.... And all earthly life, it is told, shall go back at last through the great circle of time to Ubbo-Sathla.

— The Book of Eibon.

PAUL TREGARDIS found the milky crystal in a litter of oddments from many lands and eras. He had entered the shop of the curio-dealer through an aimless impulse, with no particular object in mind, other than the idle distraction of eyeing and fingering a miscellany of far-gathered things. Looking desultorily about, his attention had been drawn by a dull glimmering on one of the tables; and he had extricated the queer orb-like stone from its shadowy, crowded position between an ugly little Aztec idol, the fossil egg of a dinornis, and an obscene fetish of black wood from the Niger.

The thing was about the size of a small orange and was slightly flattened at the ends, like a planet at its poles. It puzzled Tregardis, for it was not like an ordinary crystal, being cloudy and changeable, with an intermittent glowing in its heart, as if it were alternately illumed and darkened from within. Holding it to the wintry window, he studied it for awhile without being able to determine the secret of this singular and regular alternation. His puzzlement was soon complicated by a dawning sense of vague and irrecognizable familiarity, as if he had seen the thing before under circumstances that were now wholly forgotten.


He appealed to the curio-dealer, a dwarfish Hebrew with an air of dusty antiquity, who gave the impression of being lost to commercial considerations in some web of cabalistic revery.

"Can you tell me anything about this?”

The dealer gave an indescribable, simultaneous shrug of his shoulders and his eyebrows.

"It is very old — palaegean, one might say. I can not tell you much, for little is known. A geologist found it in Greenland, beneath glacial ice, in the Miocene strata. Who knows? It may have belonged to some sorcerer of primeval Thule. Greenland was a warm, fertile region beneath the sun of Miocene times. No doubt it is a magic crystal; and a man might behold strange visions in its heart, if he looked long enough.”

Tregardis was quite startled; for the dealer’s apparently fantastic suggestion had brought to mind his own delvings in a branch of obscure lore; and, in particular, had recalled The Book of Eibon, that strangest and rarest of occult forgotten volumes, which is said to have come down through a series of manifold translations from a prehistoric original written in the lost language of Hyperborea. Tregardis, with much difficulty, had obtained the mediaeval French version — a copy that had been owned by many generations of sorcerers and Satanists — but had never been able to find the Greek manuscript from which the version was derived.

Ihe remote, fabulous original was supW. T.— 7

UBBO'SATHLA


posed to have been the work of a great Hyperborean wizard, from whom it had taken its name. It was a collection of dark and baleful myths, of liturgies, rituals and incantations both evil and esoteric. Not without shudders, in the course of studies tliat the average person would have considered more tlaan singular, Tregardis had collated the French volume with the frightful Necronomlcon of the mad Arab, Abdul Alhazred. He had found many correspondences of the blackest and most appalling significance, together with much forbidden data that was either unknown to the Arab or omitted by him... or by his translators.

Was this what he had been trying to recall, Tregardis wondered — the brief, casual reference, in The Book of Eibon, to a cloudy crystal that had been owned by the wizard Zon Mezzamalech, in Mhu Thulan? Of course, it was all too fantastic, too hypothetic, too inaedible — but Mhu Thulan, that northern portion of ancient Hyperborea, was supposed to have corresponded roughly with modern Greenland, which had formerly been joined as a peninsula to the main continent. Could the stone in his hand, by some fabulous fortuity, be the crystal of Zon Mezzamalech?

T regardis smiled at himself with inward irony for even conceiving the absurd notion. Such things did not occur — at least, not in present-day London; and in all likelihood. The Book of Eibon was sheer superstitious fantasy, anyway. Nevertheless, there was something about the crystal that continued to tease and inveigle him. He ended by purchasing it, at a fairly moderate price. The sum was named by the seller and paid by the buyer without bargaining.

With the crystal in his pocket, Paul Tregardis hastened back to his lodgings W. T.— 8

instead of resuming his leisurely saunter. He installed the milky globe on his writing-table, where it stood firmly enough on one of its oblate ends. Then, still smiling at his own absurdity, he took down the yellow parchment manuscript of The Book of Eibon from its place in a somewhat inclusive collection of recherche literature. He opened the vermiculated leather cover with hasps of tarnished steel, and read over to himself, translating from the archaic French as he read, the paragraph that referred to Zon Mezzamalech:

"This wizard, who was migiity among sorcerers, had found a cloudy stone, orb-like and somewhat flattened at the ends, in which he could behold many visions of the terrene past, even to the Earth’s beginning, when Ubbo-Sathla, the unbegotten source, lay vast and swollen and yeasty amid the vaporing slime.... But of that which he beheld, Zon Mezzamalech left little record; and people say that he vanished presently, in a way that is not known; and after him the cloudy crystal was lost,”

Paul Tregardis laid the manuscript aside. Again there was something that tantalized and beguiled him, like a lost dream or a memory forfeit to oblivion. Impelled by a feeling which he did not scrutinize or question, he sat down before the table and began to stare intently into the cold, nebulous orb. He felt an expectation which, somehow, was so familiar, so permeative a part of his consciousness, that he did not even name it to himself.

Minute by minute he sat, and watched the alternate glimmering and fading of the mysterious light in the heart of the crystal. By imperceptible degrees, there stole upon him a sense of dream-like duality, both in respect to his person and his surroundings. He was still Paul Tregardis — and yet he was some one else; the room was his London apartment — ■ and a chamber in some foreign but wellknown place. And in both milieus he peered stedfastly into the same crystal.



After an interim, without surprize on the part of Tregardis, the process of reidentification became complete. He knew that he was Zon Mezzamalech, a sorcerer of Mhu Thulan, and a student of all lore anterior to his own epoch. Wise with dreadful secrets that were not known to Paul Tregardis, amateur of anthropology and the occult sciences in latter-day London, he sought by means of the milky crystal to attain an even older and more fearful knowledge.

He had acquired the stone in dubitable ways, from a more than sinister source. It was unique and without fellow in any land or time. In its depths, all former years, all things that have ever been, were supposedly mirrored, and would reveal themselves to the patient visionary. And through the crystal, Zon Mezzamalech had dreamt to recover the wisdom of the gods who died before the Earth was born. They had passed to the lightless void, leaving their lore inscribed upon tablets of ultra-steliar stone; and the tablets were guarded in the primal mire by the formless, idiotic demiurge, Ubbo-Sathla. Only by means of the crystal could he hope to find and read the tablets.

F or the first time, he was making trial of the globe’s reputed virtues. About him an ivory-panelled chamber, filled with his magic books and paraphernalia, was fading slowly from his consciousness. Before him, on a table of some dark Hyperborean wood that had been graven with grotesque ciphers, the crystal appeared to swell and deepen, and in its filmy depth he beheld a swift and broken swirling of dim scenes, fleeting like the bubbles of a mill-race. As if he looked upon an actual world, cities, forests, mountains, seas and meadows flowed beneath him, lightening and darkening as with the passage of days and nights in

some weirdly accelerated stream of time.

Zon Mezzamalech had forgotten Paul Tregardis — had lost the remembrance of his own entity and his own surroundings in Mhu Thulan. Moment by moment, the flowing vision in the crystal became more definite and distinct, and the orb itself deepened till he grew giddy, as if he were peering from an insecure height into some never-fathomed abyss. He knew that time was racing backward in the crystal, was unrolling for him the pageant of all past days; but a strange alarm had seized him, and he feared to gaze longer. Like one who has nearly fallen from a precipice, he caught himself with a violent start and drew back from the mystic orb.

Again, to his gaze, the enormous whirling world into which he had peered was a small and cloudy crystal on his runewrought table in Mhu Thulan. Then, by degrees, it seemed that the great room with sculptured panels of mammoth ivory was narrowing to another and dingier place; and Zon Mezzamalech, losing his preternatural wisdom and sorcerous power, went back by a weird regression into Paul Tregardis.

And yet not wholly, it seemed, was he able to return. Tregardis, dazed and wondering, found himself before the writingtable on which he had set the oblate sphere. He felt the confusion of one who has dreamt and has not yet fully awakened from the dream. The room puzzled him vaguely, as if something were wrong with its size and furnishings; and his remembrance of purchasing the crystal from a curio-dealer was oddly and discrepantly mingled with an impression that he had acquired it in a very different manner.

He felt that something very strange had happened to him when he peered into the crystal; but just what it was he could not seem to recollect. It had left him in the sort of psychic muddlement



that follows a debauch of hashish. He assured himself that he was Paul Tregardis, that he lived on a certain street in London, that the year was 1933; but such commonplace verities had somehow lost their meaning and their validity; and everything about him was shadow-like and insubstantial. The very walls seemed to waver like smoke; the people in the streets were phantoms of phantoms; and he himself was a lost shadow, a wandering echo of something long forgot.

He resolved that he would not repeat his experiment of crystal-gazing. The effects were too unpleasant and equivocal. But the very next day, by an unreasoning impulse to which he yielded almost mechanically, without reluctation, he found himself seated before the misty orb. Again he became the sorcerer Zon Mezzamalech in Mhu Thulan; again he dreamt to retrieve the wisdom of the antemundane gods; again he drew back from the deepening crystal with the terror of one who fears to fall; and once more — but doubtfully and dimly, like a failing wraith — he was Paul Tregardis.

Three times did Tregardis repeat the experience on successive days; and each time his own person and the world about him became more tenuous and confused than before. His sensations were those of a dreamer who is on the verge of waking; and London itself was unreal as the lands that slip from the dreamer’s ken, receding in filmy mist and cloudy light. Beyond it all, he felt the looming and crowding of vast imageries, alien but half familiar. It was as if the fantasmagoria of time and space were dissolving about him, to reveal some veritable reality — or another dream of space and time.

T here came, at last, the day when he sat down before the crystal — and did not return as Paul Tregardis. It was the day when Zon Mezzamalech, boldly

disregarding certain evil and portentous warnings, resolved to overcome his curious fear of falling bodily into the visionary world that he beheld — a fear that had hitherto prevented him from following the backward stream of time for any distance. He must, he assured himself, conquer this fear if he were ever to see and read the lost tablets of the gods. He had beheld nothing more than a few fragments of the years of Mhu Thulan immediately posterior to the present — the years of his own lifetime; and there were inestimable cycles between these years and the Beginning.

Again, to his gaze, the crystal deepened immeasurably, with scenes and happenings that flowed in a retrograde stream. Again the magic ciphers of the dark table faded from his ken, and the sorcerously carven walls of his chamber melted into less than dream. Once more he grew giddy with an awful vertigo as he bent above the swirling and milling of the terrible gulfs of time in the world-like orb. Fearfully, in spite of his resolution, he would have drawn away; but he had looked and leaned too long. There was a sense of abysmal falling, a suction as of ineluctable winds, of maelstroms that bore him down through fleet unstable visions of his own past life into antenatal years and dimensions. He seemed to endure the pangs of an inverse dissolution; and then he was no longer Zon Mezzamalech, the wise and learned watcher of the crystal, but an actual part of the weirdly racing stream that ran back to reattain the Beginning.

He seemed to live unnumbered lives, to die myriad deaths, forgetting each time the death and life that had gone before. He fought as a warrior in halflegendary battles; he was a child playing in the ruins of some olden city of Mhu Thulan; he was the king who had reigned when the city was in its prime, the proph116


et who had foretold its building and its doom. A woman, he wept for the bygone dead in necropoli long-crumbled; an antique wizard, he muttered the rude spells of earlier sorcery; a priest of some pre-human god, he wielded the sacrificial knife in cave-temples of pillared basalt. Life by life, era by era, he retraced the long and groping cycles through which Hyperborea had risen from savagery to a high civilization.

He became a barbarian of some troglodytic tribe, fleeing from the slow, turreted ice of a former glacial age into lands illumed by the ruddy flare of perpetual volcanoes. Then, after incomputable years, he was no longer man but a manlike beast, roving in forests of giant fern and catamite, or building an uncouth nest in the boughs of mighty cycads.

Through eons of anterior sensation, of crude lust and hunger, of aboriginal terror and madness, there was someone — or something — that went ever backward in time. Death became birth, and birth was death. In a slow vision of reverse change, the earth appeared to melt away, to slough off the hills and mountains of its latter strata. Always the sun grew larger and hotter above the fuming swamps that teemed with a crasser life, with a more fulsome vegetation. And the thing that had been Paul Tregardis, that had been Zon Mezzamalech, was a part of all the monstrous devolution. It flew with the claw-tipped wings of a pterodactyl, it swam in tepid seas with the vast, winding bulk of an ichthyosaurus, it bellowed uncouthly with the armored throat of some forgotten behemoth to the huge moon that burned through Liassic mists.

At length, after eons of immemorial brutehood, it became one of the lost serpent-men who reared their cities of black gneiss and fought their venomous wars in the world’s first continent. It walked

undulously in ante-human streets, in strange crooked vaults; it peered at primeval stars from high, Babelian towers; it bowed with hissing litanies to great serpent-idols. Through years and ages of the ophidian era it returned, and was a thing that crawled in the ooze, that had not yet learned to think and dream and build. And the time came when there was no longer a continent, but only a vast, chaotic marsh, a sea of slime, without limit or horizon, that seethed with a blind writhing of amorphous vapors.

There, in the gray beginning of Earth, the formless mass that w'as Ubbo-Sathla reposed amid the slime and the vapors. Headless, without organs or members, it sloughed from its oozy sides, in a slow, ceaseless wave, the amebic forms that were the archetypes of earthly life. Horrible it was, if there had been aught to apprehend the horror; and loathsome, if there had been any to feel loathing. About it, prone or tilted in the mire, there lay the mighy tablets of star-quarried stone that were writ with the inconceivable wisdom of the premundane gods.

And tliere, to the goal of a forgotten search, was drawn the thing that had been — or would sometime be — Paul Tregardis and Zon Mezzamalech. Becoming a shapeless eft of the prime, it crawled sluggishly and obliviously across the fallen tablets of the gods, and fought and ravened blindly with the other spawn of Ubbo-Sathla.

O F ZON MEZZAMALECH and his vanishing, there is no mention anywhere, save the brief passage in The Book of Bibon. Concerning Paul Tregardis, who also disappeared, there was a curt notice in several London papers. No one seems to have known anything about him; he is gone as if he had never been; and the crystal, prestimably, is gone too. At least, no one has found it.

Jy an on the Ground

Vj)

By ROBERT E. HOWARD

An eery story of a feud to the death between two cowpunchers — by the author of "The Shadow Kingdom"

AL REYNOLDS shifted his tobacco quid to the other side of his mouth as he squinted down the dull blue barrel of his Winchester. His jaws worked methodically, their movement ceasing as he found his bead. He fro2e into rigid immobility; then his finger hooked on the trigger. The crack of the shot sent the echoes rattling among the hills, and like a loader echo came an answering shot. Reynolds flinched down, flattening his rangy body against the earth, swearing softly. A gray flake jumped from one of the rocks near his head, the ricocheting bullet whining off into space. Reynolds involuntarily shivered. The sound was as deadly as the singing of an unseen rattler.

He raised himself gingerly high enough to peer out between the rocks in front of him. Separated from his refuge by a broad level grown with mesquite-grass and prickly-pear, rose a tangle of boulders similar to that behind which he crouched. From among these boulders floated a thin wisp of whitish smoke. Reynolds’ keen eyes, trained to sunscorched distances, detected a small circle of dully gleaming blue steel among the rocks. That ring was the mu2zle of a rifle, and Reynolds well knew who lay behind that muzzle.

The feud between Cal Reynolds and Esau Brill had been long, for a Texas feud. Up in the Kentucky mountains family wars may straggle on for generations, but the geographical conditions and

human temperament of the Southwest were not conducive to long-drawn-out hostilities. There feuds were generally concluded with appalling suddenness and finality. The stage was a saloon, the streets of a little cow-town, or the open range. Sniping from the laurel was exchanged for the close-range tliundering of six-shooters and sawed-off shotguns which decided matters quickly, one way or the other.

Tlie case of Cal Reynolds and Esau Brill was somewhat out of the ordinary. In the first place, the feud concerned only themselves. Neither friends nor relatives were drawn into it. No one, including the participants, knew just how it started. Cal Reynolds merely knew that he had hated Esau Brill most of his life, and that Brill reciprocated. Once as youths they had clashed with the violence and intensity of rival young catamounts. From that encounter Reynolds carried away a knife scar acoss the edge of his ribs, and Brill a permanently impaired eye. It had decided nothing. They had fought to a bloody gasping deadlock, and neither had felt any desire to "shake hands and make up.” That is a hypocrisy developed in civilization, where men have no stomach for fighting to the death. After a man has felt his adversary’s knife grate against his bones, his adversary’s thumb gouging at his eyes, his adversary’s boot-heels stamped into his mouth, he is scarcely inclined to forgive and forget,




regardless of the original merits of the argument.

So Reynolds and Brill carried their mutual hatred into manhood, and as cowpunchers riding for rival ranches, it followed tliat they found opportunities to carry on their private war. Reynolds rustled cattle from Brill’s boss, and Brill returned the compliment. Each raged at the other’s tactics, and considered himself justified in eliminating his enemy in any way that he could. Brill caught Reynolds without his gun one night in a saloon at Cow Wells, and only an ignominious flight out the back way, with bullets barking at his heels, saved the Reynolds scalp.

Again Reynolds, lying in the chaparral, neatly knocked his enemy out of his saddle at five hundred yards with a.30-30 slug, and, but for the inopportune appearance of a line-rider, the feud would have ended there, Reynolds deciding, in the face of this witness, to forego his original intention of leaving his covert and hammering out the woimded man’s brains with his rifle butt.

Brill recovered from his wound, having the vitality of a longhorn bull, in common with all his sun-leathered ironthewed breed, and as soon as he was on his feet, he came gunning for the man who had waylaid him.

N ow after these onsets and skirmishes, the enemies faced each other at good rifle range, among the lonely hills where interruption was unlikely.

For more than an hour they had lain among the rocks, shooting at each hint of movement. Neither had scored a hit, though the.30-30’s whistled perilously close.

In each of Reynolds’ temples a tiny pulse hammered maddeningly. The sun beat down on him and his shirt was soaked with sweat. Gnats swarmed about

his head, getting into his eyes, and he cursed venomously. His wet hair was plastered to his scalp; his eyes burned with the glare of the sun, and the rifle barrel was hot to his calloused hand. His right leg was growing numb and he shifted it cautiously, cursing at the jingle of the spur, though he knew Brill could not hear. All his discomfort added fuel to the fire of his wrath. Without process of conscious reasoning, he attributed all his suffering to his enemy. The sim beat dazingly on his sombrero, and his thoughts were slightly addled. It was hotter than the hearthstone of hell among those bare rocks. His dry tongue caressed his baked lips.

Through the muddle of his brain burned his hatred of Esau Brill. It had become more than an emotion: it was an obsession, a monstrous incubus. When he flinched from the whip-crack of Brill’s rifle, it was not from fear of death, but because the thought of dying at the hands of his foe was an intolerable horror that made his brain rock with red frenzy. He would have thrown his life away recklessly, if by so doing he could have sent Brill into eternity just three seconds ahead of himself.

He did not analyze these feelings. Men who live by their hands have little time for self-analysis. He was no more aware of the quality of his hate for Esau Brill than he was consciously aware of his hands and feet. It was part of him, and more than part: it enveloped him, engulfed him; his mind and body were no more than its material manifestations. He was the hate; it was the whole soul and spirit of him. Unhampered by the stagnant and enervating shackles of sophistication and intellectuality, his instincts rose sheer from the naked primitive. And from them crystallized an almost tangible abstraction — a hate too



strong for even death to destroy; a hate powerful enough to embody itself in itself, without the aid or the necessity of material substance.

For perhaps a quarter of an hour neither rifle had spoken. Instinct with death as rattlesnakes coiled among the rocks soaking up poison from the sun’s rays, the feudists lay each waiting his chance, playing the game of endurance until the taut nerves of one or the other should snap.

I T WAS Esau Brill who broke. Not that his collapse took the form of any wild madness or nervous explosion. The wary instincts of the wild were too strong in him for that. But suddenly, with a screamed curse, he hitched up on his elbow and fired blindly at the tangle of stones which concealed his enemy. Only the upper part of his arm and the cornet of his blue-shirted shoulder were for an instant visible. That was enough. In that flash-second Cal Reynolds jerked the trigger, and a frightful yell told him his bullet had found its mark. And at the animal pain in that yell, reason and lifelong instincts were swept away by an insane flood of terrible joy. He did not whoop exultantly and spring to his feet; but his teeth bared in a wolfish grin and he involuntarily raised his head. Waking instinct jerked him down again. It was chance that undid him. Even as he ducked back, Brill’s answering shot cracked.

Cal Reynolds did not hear it, because, simultaneously with the sound, something exploded in his skull, plunging him into utter blackness, shot briefly with red sparks.

The blackness was only momentary. Cal Reynolds glared wildly around, realixing with a frenzied shock that he was lying in the open. 'The impact of the shot

had sent him rolling from among the rocks, and in that quick instant he realized that it had not been a direct hit. Chance had sent the bullet glancing from a stone, apparently to flick his scalp in passing. 'That was not so important. What was important was that he was lying out in full view, where Esau Brill could fill him full of lead. A wild glance showed his rifle lying close by. It had fallen across a stone and lay with the stock against the ground, the barrel slanting upward. Another glance showed his enemy standing upright among the stones that had concealed him.

In that one glance Cal Reynolds took in the details of the tall, rangy figure: the stained trousers sagging with the weight of the bolstered six-shooter, the legs tucked into the worn leather boots; the streak of crimson on the shoulder of the blue shirt, which was plastered to the wearer’s body with sweat; the tousled black hair, from which perspiration was pouring down tiie unshaven face. He caught the glint of yellow tobacco-stained teeth shining in a savage grin. Smoke still drifted from the rifle in Brill’s hands.

These familiar and hated details stood out in startling clarity during the fleeting instant while Reynolds struggled madly against the unseen chains which seemed to hold him to the earth. Even as he thought of the paralysis a glancing blow on the head might induce, something seemed to snap and he rolled free. Rolled is hardly the word: he seemed almost to dart to the rifle that lay across the rock, so light his limbs felt.

Dropping behind the stone he seized the weapon. He did not even have to lift it. As it lay it bore directly on the man who was now approaching.

His hand was momentarily halted by Esau Brill’s strange behavior. Instead of firing or leaping back into cover the man



came straight on, his rifle in the crook of his arm, that damnable leer still on his unshaven lips. Was he mad.^ Could he not see that his enemy was up again, raging with life, and with a cocked rifle aimed at his heart.^ Brill seemed not to be looking at him, but to one side, at the spot where Reynolds had just been lying.

Without seeking further for the explanation of his foe’s actions. Cal Reynolds pulled the trigger. With the vicious spang of the report a blue shred leaped from Brill’s broad breast. He staggered bade, his mouth flying open. And the look on his face froze Reynolds again. Esau Brill came of a breed which fights to its last gasp. Nothing was more certain than that he would go down pulling the trigger blindly until the last red vestige of life left him. Yet the ferocious triumph was wiped from his face with the crack of the shot, to be replaced by an awful expression of dazed surprize. He made no move to lift his rifle, which slipped from his grasp, nor did he clutch at his wound. Throwing out his hands in a strange, stunned, helpless way, he reeled backward on slowly buckling legs, his features frozen into a mask of stupid amazement that made his watcher shiver with its cosmic horror.

’Through the opened lips gushed a tide of blood, dyeing the damp shirt. And like a tree that sways and rushes suddenly earthward, Esau Brill crashed down among the mesquite-grass and lay motionless.

CAL REYNOLDS rosc, leaving the rifle where it lay. The rolling grassgrown hills swam misty and indistinct to his gaze. Even the sky and the blazing sun had a hazy unreal aspect. But a savage content was in his soul. The long feud was over at last, and whether he had taken his death-wound or not, he had sent Esau Brill to blaze the trail to hell ahead of him.

Then he started violently as his gaze wandered to the spot where he had rolled after being hit. He glared; were his eyes playing him tricks? Yonder in the grass Esau Brill lay dead— yet only a few feet away stretched another body.

Rigid with surprize, Reynolds glared at the rangy figure, slumps grotesquely beside the rocks. It lay partly on its side, as if flung there by some blind convulsion, the arms outstretched, the fingers crooked as if blindly clutching. The short-cropped sandy hair was splashed with blood, and from a ghastly hole in the temple the brains were oozing. From a corner of the mouth seeped a thin trickle of tobacco juice to stain the dusty neck-cloth.

And as he gazed, an awful familiarity made itself evident. He knew the feel of those shiny leather wrist-bands; he knew with fearful certainty whose hands had buckled that gun-belt; the tang of that tobacco juice was still on his palate.

In one brief destroying instant he knew he was looking down at his own lifeless body. And with the knowledge came true oblivion.

By J. SHERIDAN LE FANU

1. Doctor Hesselius Relates How He Met the Rev. Mr. Jennings

T he Rev. Mr. Jennings is tall and thin. He is middle-aged, and dresses with a natty, old-fashioned, high-church precision. He is naturally a little stately, but not at all stiff. His features, without being handsome, are well formed, and their expression extremely kind, but also shy.

I met him one evening at Lady Mary Heyduke's. The modesty and benevolence of his countenance are extremely prepossessing.

We were but a small party, and he joined agreeably enough in the conversation. He seems to enjoy listening very much more than contributing to the talk; but what he says is always to the purpose and well said. He is a great favorite of Lady Mary’s, who, it seems, consults him upon many things, and thinks him the most happy and blessed person on earth. Little knows she about him.

The Rev. Mr. Jennings is a bachelor, and has, they say, sixty thousand pounds in the funds. He is a charitable man. He is most anxious to be actively employed in his sacred profession, and yet though always tolerably well elsewhere, when he goes down to his vicarage in Warwickshire, to engage in the actual duties of his sacred calling, his health soon fails him, and in a very strange way. So says Lady Mary.

There is no doubt that Mr. Jennings’ health does break down, in generally a sudden and mysterious way, sometimes in the very act of officiating in his old and pretty church at Kenlis. It may be his heart, it may be his brain. But so it has happened three or four times, or oftener, that after proceeding a certain way in the service, he has on a sudden stopped short, and after a silence, apparently quite unable to resume, he has fallen into solitary, inaudible prayer, his hands and his eyes uplifted, and then, pale as death, and in the agitation of a strange shame and horror, descended trembling, and got into the vestry-room, leaving his congregation, without explanation, to themselves. This occurred when his curate was absent. When he goes down to Kenlis now, he always takes care to provide a clergyman to share his duty, and to supply his place




on the instant should he become thus suddenly incapacitated.

When Mr. Jennings breaks down quite, and beats a retreat from the vicarage, and returns to London, where, in a dark street off Piccadilly, he inhabits a very narrow house. Lady Mary says that he is always perfectly well. I have my own opinion about that. There are degrees, of course. We shall see.

Mr. Jennings is a perfectly gentlemanlike man. People, however, remark something odd. There is an impression a little ambiguous. One thing which certainly contributes to it, people I think don’t remember, or don’t distinctly remark. But I did, almost immediately. Mr. Jennings has a way of looking sidelong upon the carpet, as if his eye followed the movements of something there. This occurs only now and then, but often enough to give a certain oddity to his manner, and ill tliis glance travelling along the floor there is something both shy and anxious.

A medical philosopher, as you are good enough to call me, elaborating theories by the aid of cases sought out by himself, and by him watched and scrutinized with more time at command, and consequently infinitely more minuteness than the ordinary practitioner can afford, falls insensibly into habits of observation, which accompany him everywhere, and are exercised, as some people would say, impertinently, upon every subject that presents itself with the least likelihood of rewarding inquiry.

There was a promise of this kind in the slight, timid, kindly, but reserved gentleman, whom I met for the first time at this agreeable little evening gathering. I observed, of course, more than I here set down; but I reserve all that borders on the technical for a strictly scientific paper.

I may remark, that when I here speak of medical science, I do so in a much

more comprehensive sense than its generally material treatment would warrant. I believe the entire natural world is but the ultimate expression of that spiritual world from which, and in which alone, it has its life. I believe that the essential man is a spirit, that the spirit is an organized substance, but as different in point of material from what we ordinarily understand by matter, as light or electricity is; that the material body is, in the most literal sense, a vesture, and death consequently no interruption of the living man’s existence, but simply his extrication from the natural body — a process which commences at the moment of what we term death, and the completion of which, at furthest a few days later, is the resurrection "in power.”

In pursuance of my habit, I was covertly observing Mr. Jennings, with all my caution — I think he perceived it — and I saw plainly that he was as cautiously observing me. Lady Mary happening to address me by name, as Doctor Hesselius, I saw that he glanced at me more sharply, and then became thoughtful for a few minutes.

After this, as I conversed with a gentleman at the other end of the room, I saw him look at me more steadily, and with an interest which I thought I understood. I then saw him take an opportunity of chatting with Lady Mary, and was, as one always is, perfectly aware of being the subject of a distant inquiry and answer.

T his tall clergyman approached me by and by; and in a little time we had got into conversation. When two people, who like reading, and know books and places, having travelled, wish to discourse, it is very strange if they can’t find topics. It was not accident that brought him near me, and led him into conversaGREEN TEA


tion. He knew German, and had read my Essays on Metaphysical Medicine, which suggest more than they actually say.

This courteous man, gentle, shy, plainly a man of thought and reading, who, moving and talking among us, was not altogether of us, was cautiously weighing in his own mind the idea of taking a certain step with regard to me. I penetrated his thoughts without his being aware of it, and was careful to say nothing which could betray to his sensitive vigilance my suspicions respecting his position, or my surmises about his plans respecting myself.

We chatted upon indifferent subjects for a time, but at last he said:

"I was very much interested by some papers of yours. Doctor Hesselius, upon what you term metaphysical medicine — I read them in German, ten or twelve years ago — have they been translated?”

"No, I’m sure they have not — I should have heard. They would have asked my leave, I think.”

"I asked the publishers here, a few months ago, to get the book for ihe in the original German; but they tell me it is out of print.”

"So it is, and has been for some years; but it flatters me as an author to find that you have not forgotten my little book, although,” I added, laughing, "ten or twelve years is a considerable time to have managed without it; but I suppose you have been turning the subject over again in your mind, or something has happened lately to revive your interest in it.”

At this remark, accompanied by a glance of inquiry, a sudden embarrassment disturbed Mr. Jennings, analogous to that which makes a young lady blusli and look foolish. He dropped his eyes, and folded his hands together uneasily.

and looked oddly, and you would have said, guiltily, for a moment.

I helped him out of his awkwardness in the best way, by appearing not to observe it, and going straight on, I said: "Those revivals of interest in a subject happen to me often; one book suggests another, and often sends me back on a wild-goose chase over an interval of twenty years. But if you still care to possess a copy, I shall be only too happy to provide you; I still have two or three by me — and if you allow me to present one I shall be very much honored.”

"You are very good indeed,” he said, quite at his ease again, in a moment: "I almost despaired — I don’t know how to thank you.”

"Pray don’t say a word; the thing is really so little worth that I am only ashamed of having offered it, and if you thank me any more I shall throw it into the fire in a fit of modesty.”

Mr. Jennings laughed. He inquired where I was staying in London, and after a little more conversation on a variety of objects, he took his departure.

2. The Doctor Questions Lady Mary, and She Answers

“T LIKE your vicar so much. Lady Mary,” -»■ said I, as soon as he was gone. "He has read, travelled, and thought, and having also suffered, he ought to be an accomplished companion.”

"So he is, and, better still, he is a really good man,” said she. "His advice is invaluable about my schools, and all my little undertakings at Dawlbridge, and he’s so painstaking, he takes so much trouble — ^you have no idea — ^wherever he thinks he can be of use: he’s so goodnatured and so sensible.”

"It is pleasant to hear so good an account of his neighborly virtues. I can only testify to his being an agreeable and



gentle companion, and in addition to what you have told me, I think I can tell you tv/oor three things about him,” said I.

"Really!”

"Yes, to begin with, he’s immarried.”

"Yes, that’s right — go on.”

"He has been writing, that is he was, but for two or three years perhaps, he has not gone on with his work, and the book was upon some rather abstract subject — perhaps theology.”

"Well, he was writing a book, as you say; I’m not quite sure what it was about, but only that it was nothing that I cared for; very likely you are right, and he certainly did stop — yes.”

"And although he only drank a little coffee here tonight, he likes tea, at least, did like it, extravagantly.”

"Yes, that’s quite true.”

"He drank green tea a good deal, didn’t he?” I pursued.

"Well, that’s very odd! Green tea was a subject on which we used almost to quarrel.”

"But he has quite given that up,” said I.

"So he has.”

"And now, one more fact. His mother or his father, did you know them?”

"Yes, both; his father is only ten years dead, and their place is near Dawlbridge. We knew them very well,” she answered.

"Well, either his mother or his father — I should rather think his father — saw a ghost,” said I.

"Well, you really are a conjurer. Doctor Hesselius.”

"Conjurer or no, haven’t I said right?” I answered merrily.

"You certainly have, and it was his father: he was a silent, whimsical man, and he used to bore my father about his dreams, and at last he told him a story about a ghost he had seen and talked with, and a very odd story it was. I remember it particularly, because I was so

afraid of him. ’This story was long before he died — ^when I was quite a child — and his days were so silent and moping, and he used to drop in sometimes, in the dusk, when I was alone in the drawingroom, and I used to fancy there were ghosts about him.”

I smiled and nodded.

"And now, having established my character as a conjurer, I think I must say good-night,” said I.

"But how did you find it out?”

"By the planets, of course, as the gipsies do,” I answered, and so, gayly, we said good-night.

Next morning I sent the little book he had been inquiring after, and a note to Mr. Jennings, and on returning late that evening, I found that he had called at my lodgings, and left his card. He asked whether I was at home, and asked at what hour he would be most likely to find me.

Does he intend opening his case, and consulting me "professionally,” as they say? I hope so. I have already conceived a tljeory about him. It is supported by Lady Mary’s answers to my parting questions. I should like much to ascertain from his own lips. But what can I do consistently with good breeding to invite a confession? Nothing. I rather think he meditates one. At all events, I shan’t make myself difficult of access; I mean to return his visit tomorrow. Perhaps something may come of it.

3. Doctor Hesselius Picks Up Something in Latin Books

WELL, I have called at Blank Street.

On my inquiring at the door, the servant told me that Mr. Jennings was engaged very particularly with a clergyman from Kenlis, his parish in the country. Intending to reserve my privilege, and to call again, I merely intimated that I should try another time, and had turned



to go, when the servant begged my pardon, and asked me, looking at me a little more attentively than well-bred persons of his order usually do, whether I was Doctor Hesselius; and, on learning that I was, he said, "Perhaps then, sir, you would allow me to mention it to Mr. Jennings, for I am sure he wishes to see you.”

The servant returned in a moment, with a message from Mr. Jennings, asking me to go into his study, which was in effect his back drawing-room, promising to be with me in a very few minutes.

This was really a study — almost a library. The room was lofty, with two tall slender windows, and rich dark curtains. It was much larger than I had expected, and stored with books on every side, from the floor to the ceiling. The upper carpet — for to my tread it felt that there were two or three — was a Turkey carpet. My steps fell noiselessly. The bookcases standing out, placed the windows, particularly narrow ones, in deep recesses. The effect of the room was, although extremely comfortable, decidedly gloomy, and aided by the silence, almost oppressive. Perhaps, however, I ought to have allowed something for association. My mind had connected peculiar ideas with Mr. Jennings. I stepped into this perfectly silent room, of a very silent house, with a peculiar foreboding; and its darkness, and solemn clothing of books, helped this somber feeling.

While awaiting Mr. Jennings’ arrival, I amused myself by looking into some of the books with which his shelves were laden. Not among these, but immediately under them, with their backs upward, on the floor, I lighted upon a complete set of Swedenborg’s Arcana Ccelestia, in the origiiial Latin, a very fine folio set, bound in the natty livery which theology affects, pure vellum, namely, gold letters, and carmine edges. There were paper

markers in several of these voh-.mes. I raised and placed them, one after the other, upon the table, and opening where these papers were placed, I read in the solemn Latin phraseology, a series of sentences indicated by a pencilled line at the margin. Of these I copy here a few, translating them into English.

"When man’s interior sight is opened, which is that of his spirit, then there appear the things of another life, which can not possibly be made visible to the bodily sight....

"By the internal sight it has been granted me to see the things that are in the other life, more clearly than I see those that are in the world. From these considerations, it is evident that external vision exists from interior vision, and this from a vision still more interior, and so on....

"There are with every man at least two evil spirits....

"The evil spirits associated with man are, indeed, from the hells, but when with man they are not then in hell, but are taken out thence. The place where they then are, is in the midst between heaven and hell, and is called the world of spirits — when the evil spirits who are v/ith man, are in that world, they are not in any infernal torment, but in every thought and affection of the man, and so, in all tliat the man himself enjoys. But when they are remitted into their hell, they return to their former state....

"If evil spirits could perceive that they were associated with man, and yet that they were spirits separate from him, and if they could flow in into the things of his body, tliey would attempt by a thousand means to destroy him; for they hate man with a deadly hatred.. '..

"The delight of hell is to do evil to man, and to hasten his eternal ruin.”

A long note, written with a very sharp



and fine pencil, in Mr. Jennings’ neat hand, at the foot of the page, caught my eye. Expecting his criticism upon the text, I read a word or two, and stopped, for it was something quite different, and began with these words, Deus misereatur met — "May God compassionate me." Thus warned of its private nature, I averted my eyes, and shut the book, replacing all the volumes as I had found them, except one which interested me, and in which, as men studious and solitary in their habits will do, I grew so absorbed as to take no cognizance of the outer world, nor to remember where I was.

I was reading some pages which refer to "representatives” and "correspondents,” in the technical language of Swedenborg, and had arrived at a passage, the substance of which is, that evil spirits, when seen by other eyes than those of their infernal associates, present themselves, by "correspondence,” in the shape of the beast (fera) which represents their particular lust and life, in aspect direful and atrocious. This is a long passage, and particularizes a number of those bestial forms.

4. Four Eyes Were Reading the Passage

IWAS running the head of my pencilcase along the line as I read it, and something caused me to raise my eyes.

Directly before me was one of the mirrors I have mentioned, in which I saw reflected the tall shape of my friend, Mr. Jennings, leaning over my shoulder, and reading the page at which I was busy, and with a face so dark and wild that I should hardly have known him.

I turned and rose. He stood erect also, and with an effort laughed a little, saying:

"I came in and asked you how you did, but without succeeding in awaking you from your book; so I could not restrain my curiosity, and very impertinently. I’m

afraid, peeped over your shoulder. This is not your first time of looking into those pages. You have looked into Swedenborg, no doubt, long ago?”

"Oh dear, yes! I owe Swedenborg a great deal; you will discover traces of him in the little book on Metaphysical Medicine, which you were so good as to remember.”

Although my friend affected a gayety of manner, there was a slight flush in his face, and I could perceive that he was inwardly much perturbed.

"I’m scarcely yet qualified, I know so little of Swedenborg. I’ve only had them a fortnight,” he answered, "and I think they are rather likely to make a solitary man nervous — ^that is, judging from the very little I have read — I don’t say that they have made me so,” he laughed; "and I’m so very much obliged for the book. I hope you got my note?”

I made all proper acknowledgments and modest disclaimers.

"I never read a book that I go with, so entirely, as that of yours,” he continued. "I saw at once there is more in it than is quite unfolded. Do you know Doctor Harley?” he asked, rather abruptly.

I did, having had letters to him, and had experienced from him great courtesy and considerable assistance during my visit to England.

"I think that man one of the very greatest fools I ever met in my life,” said Mr. Jennings.

This was the first time I had ever heard him say a sharp thing of anybody, and such a term applied to so high a name a little startled me.

"Really! and in what way?” I asked.

"In his profession,” he answered.

I smiled.

"I mean this,” he said: "he seems to me, one half, blind — I mean one half of



all he looks at is dark — pretematurally bright and vivid all the rest; and the worst of it is, it seems wilful. I can’t get him — I mean he won’t — I’ve had some experience of him as a physician, but I look on him as, in that sense, no better than a paralytic mind, an intellect half dead. I’ll tell you — I know I shall some time — all about it,” he said with a little agitation. "You stay some months longer in England. If I should be out of town during your stay for a little time, would you allow me to trouble you with a letter?”

"I should be only too happy,” I assured him.

"Very good of you. I am so utterly dissatisfied with Harley.”

"A little leaning to the materialistic school,” I said.

"A mere materialist,” he corrected me; "you can’t tliink how that sort of thing worries one who knows better. You won’t tell any one — any of my friends you know — that I am hippish; now, for instance, no one knows — not even Lady Mary — that I have seen Doctor Harley, or any other doctor. So pray don’t mention it; and, if I should have any threatening of an attack, you’ll kindly let me write, or, should I be in town, have a little talk with you.”

I was full of conjecture, and unconsciously I found I had fixed my eyes gravely on him, for he lowered his for a moment, and he said:

"I see you think I might as well tell you now, or else you are forming a conjecture; but you may as well give it up. If you were guessing all the rest of your life, you will never hit on it.”

He shook his head smiling, and over that wintry sunshine a black cloud suddenly came down, and he drew his breath in through his teeth as men do in pain.

"Sorry, of course, to learn that you apprehend occasion to consult any of us; but, command me when and how you like, and I need not assure you that your confidence is sacred.”

He then talked of quite other things, and in a comparatively cheerful way, and after a little time, I took my leave.

5. Doctor Hesselius Is Summoned to Richmond

W E PARTED cheerfully, but he was not cheerful, nor was I. There are certain expressions of that powerful organ of spirit — the human face — which, although I have seen them often, and possess a doctor’s nerve, yet disturb me profoundly. One look of Mr. Jennings haunted me. It had seized my imagination with so dismal a power that I changed my plans for the evening, and went to the opera, feeling that I wanted a change of ideas.

I heard nothing of or from him for two or three days, when a note in his hand reached me. It was cheerful, and full of hope. He said that he had been for some little time so much better — quite well, in fact — for he was going to make a little experiment, and run down for a month or so to his parish, to try whether a little work might not quite set him up. There was in it a fervent religious expression of gratitude for his restoration, as he now almost hoped he might call it.

A day or two later I saw Lady Mary, who repeated what his note had announced, and told me that he was actually in Warwickshire, having resumed his clerical duties at Kenlis; and she added, "I begin to think that he is really perfectly well, and that there never was anything the matter, more than nerves and fancy; we are all nervous, but I fancy there is nothing like a little hard work for that kind of weakness, and he has made up his mind to try it. I should not



be surprized if he did not come back for a year.”

Notwithstanding all this confidence, only two days later I had this note, dated from his house off Piccadilly:

Dear Sir, — I have returned disappointed. If 1 should feel at all able to see you, I shall write to ask you kindly to call. At present, I am too low, and, in faa, simply unable to say all I wish to say. Pray don’t mention my name to my friends. I can see no one. By and by, please God, you shall heat from me. I mean to take a run into Shropshire, where some of my people are. God bless you! May we, on my return, meet more happily than 1 can now write.”

About a week after this I saw Lady Mary at her own house, the last person, she said, left in town, and just on the wing for Brighton, for the London season was quite over. She told me that she had heard from Mr. Jennings’ niece, Martha, in Shropshire. There was nothing to be gathered from her letter, more than that he was low and nervous. In those words, of which healthy people think so lightly, what a world of suffering is sometimes hidden!

Nearly five weeks had passed without any further news of Mr. Jennings. At the end of that time I received a note from him. He wrote:

"I have been in the country, and have had change of air, change of scene, change of faces, change of everything and in everything — but myself. I have made up my mind, so far as the most irresolute creature on earth can do it, to tell my case fully to you. If your engagements will permit, pray come to me today, tomorrow, or the next day; but, pray defer as little as possible. You know not how much I need help. I have a quiet house at Richmond, where I now am. Perhaps you can manage to come to dinner, or to luncheon, or even to tea. You shall have no trouble in finding me out. The servant at Blank Street, who takes this note, will have a carriage at your door at any hour you please; and I am always to be found. You will say that I ought not to be alone. I have tried everything. Come and see.”

I called up the servant, and decided on going out the same evening, which accordingly I did.

He would have been much better in a lodging-house, or hotel, I tliought, as I drove up through a short double row of somber elms to a very old-fashioned brick

house, darkened by the foliage of these trees, which overtopped, and nearly surrounded it. It was a perverse choice, for nothing could be imagined more triste and silent. The house, I found, belonged to him. He had stayed for a day or two in town, and, finding it for some cause insupportable, had come out here, probably because being furnished and his own, he was relieved of the thought and delay of selection, by coming here.

The sun had already set, and the red reflected light of the western sky illuminated the scene with the peculiar effect with which we are all familiar. The hall seemed very dark, but, getting to the back drawing-room, whose window's command the west, I was again in the same dusky light.

I sat down, looking out upon the richly wooded landscape that glowed in the grand and melancholy light which was every moment fading. The corners of the room were already dark; all was growing dim, and the gloom was insensibly toning my mind, already prepared for what was sinister. I was waiting alone for his arrival, which soon took place. The door communicating with the front room opened, and the tall figure of Mr. Jennings, faintly seen in the ruddy twilight, came, with quiet, stealthy steps, into the room.

We shook hands, and, taking a chair to the window, where there was still light enough to enable us to see each other’s faces, he sat down beside me, and, placing his hand upon my arm, with scarcely a word of preface began his narrative.

6. How Mr. Jennings Met His Companion

T he faint glow of the west, the pomp of the then lonely woods of Richmond, were before us, behind and about us the darkening room, and on the stony

W. T.— 8



face of the sufferer — for the character of his face, though still gentle and sweet, was changed — rested that dim, odd glow whicli seems to descend and produce, where it touches, lights, sudden though faint, which are lost, almost without gradation, in darkness. The silence, too, was utter; not a distant wheel, or bark, or whistle from without; and within the depressing stillness of an invalid bachelor’s house.

I guessed well the nature, though not even vaguely the particulars of the revelations I was about to receive from that fixed face of suffering that so oddly stood out, like a portrait of Schalken’s, before its background of darkness.

"It began,” he said, "on the 15th of October, three years and eleven weeks ago, and two days — I keep very accurate count, for every day is torment. If I leave anywhere a chasm in my narrative tell me.

"About four years ago I began a work, which had cost me very much thought and reading. It was upon the religious metaphysics of the ancients.

"I wrote a great deal; I wrote late at night. I was always thinking on the subject, walking about, wherever I was, everywhere. It thoroughly infected me. You are to remember that all the material ideas connected with it were more or less of the beautiful, the subject itself delightfully interesting, and I, then, without a care.”

He sighed heavily.

"I believe that every one who sets about writing in earnest does his work, as a friend of mine phrased it, on something — tea, or coffee, or tobacco. I suppose there is a material waste ffiat must be hourly supplied in such occupations, or that we should grow too abstracted, and the mind, as it were, pass out of the body, unless it were reminded often of the connection by actual sensation. At all W. T.— 9

events, I felt the want, and I supplied it. Tea was my companion — at first the ordinary black tea, made in the usual way, not too strong: but I drank a good deal, and increased its strength as I went on. I never experienced an uncomfortable symptom from it. I began to take a little green tea. I found the effect pleasanter, it cleared and intensified the power of thought so. I had come to take it frequently, but not stronger than one might take it for pleasure.

"I v/rote a great deal out here, it was so quiet, and in this room. I used to sit up very late, and it became a habit with me to sip my tea — green tea — every now and then as my work proceeded. I had a little kettle on my table, that swung over a lamp, and made tea two or three times between eleven o’clock and two or three in the morning, my hours of going to bed. I used to go into town every day. I was not a monk, and, altliough I spent an hour or two in a library, hunting up authorities and looking out lights upon my theme, I was in no morbid state as far as I can judge. I met my friends pretty much as usual and enjoyed their society, and, on the whole, existence had never been, I think, so pleasant before.

"I had met with a man who had some odd old books, German editions in mediaeval Latin, and I was only too happy to be permitted access to them. This obliging person’s books were in the city, a very out-of-the-way part of it. I had rather out-stayed my intended hour, and, on coming out, seeing no cab near, I was tempted to get into the omnibus which used to drive past this house. It was darker than this by the time the bus had reached an old house you may have remarked, with four poplars at each side of the door, and there the last passenger but myself got out. We drove along rather faster. It was twilight now. I leaned



back in my comer next the door ruminating pleasantly.

"The interior of the omnibus was nearly dark. I had observed in the comer opposite to me at the other side, and at the end next the horses, two small circular reflections, as it seemed to me, of a reddish light. They were about two inches apart, and about the size of those small brass buttons that yachting men used to put upon their jackets. I began to speculate, as listless men will, upon this trifle, as it seemed. From what center did that faint but deep red light come, and from what — ^glass beads, buttons, toy decorations — was it reflected? We were lumbering along gently, having nearly a mile still to go. I had not solved the puzzle, and it became in another minute more odd, for these two luminous points, with a sudden jerk, descended nearer the floor, keeping still their relative distance and horizontal position, and then, as suddenly, they rose to the level of the seat on which I was sitting and I saw them no more.

"My curiosity was now really excited, and, before I had time to think, I saw again these two dull lamps, again together near the floor; again they disappeared, and again in their old corner I saw them.

"So, keeping my eyes upon them, I edged quietly up my own side, toward the end at which I still saw these tiny disks of red.

"There was very little light in the bus. It was nearly dark. I leaned forward to aid my endeavor to discover what these little circles really were. They shifted their position a little as I did so. I began now to perceive an outline of something black, and I soon saw, with tolerable distinctness, the outline of a small black monkey, pushing its face forward in mimicry to meet mine; those were its eyes,

and I now dimly saw its teeth grinning at me.

"I drew back, not knowing whether it might not meditate a spring. I fancied that one of the passengers had forgot this ugly pet, and wishing to ascertain something of its temper, though not caring to trust my fingers to it, I poked my umbrella softly toward it. It remained immovable — up to it — through it. For through it, and back and forward it passed, without the slightest resistance.

"I can’t, in the least, convey to you the kind of horror that I felt. When I had ascertained that the thing was an illusion, as I then supposed, there came a misgiving about myself and a terror that fascinated me in impotence to remove my gaze from the eyes of the brute for some moments. As I looked, it made a little skip back, quite into the corner, and I, in a panic, found myself at the door, having put my head out, drawing deep breaths of the outer air, and staring at the lights and trees we were passing, too glad to reassure myself of reality.

"I stopped the bus and got out. I perceived the man look oddly at me as I paid him. I dare say there was something unusual in my looks and manner, for I had never felt so strangely before.

7. The Journey: First Stage

“TTThen the omnibus drove on, and

▼ T I was alone upon the road, I looked carefully round to ascertain whether the monkey had followed me. To my indescribable relief I saw it nowhere. I can’t describe easily what a shock I had received, and my sense of genuine gratitude on finding myself, as I supposed, quite rid of it.

"I had got out a little before we reached this house, two or three hundred steps. A brick wall runs along the footGREEN TEA


path, and inside the wall is a hedge of yew, or some dark evergreen of that kind, and within that again the row of fine trees which you may have remarked as you came.

"This brick wall is about as high as my shoulder, and happening to raise my eyes I saw the monkey, with that stooping gait, on all fours, walking or creeping, close beside me on top of the wall. I stopped, looking at it with a feeling of loathing and horror. As I stopped so did it. It sat up on the wall with its long hands on its knees looking at me. There was not light enough to see it much more than in outline, nor was it dark enough to bring the peculiar light of its eyes into strong relief. I still saw, however, that red foggy light plainly enough. It did not show its teeth, nor exhibit any sign of irritation, but seemed jaded and sulky, and was observing me steadily.

“I drew back into the middle of the road. It was an unconscious recoil, and there I stood, still looking at it. It did not move.

"With an instinctive determination to try something — anything — I turned about and walked briskly toward town with askance look, all the time, watching the movements of the beast. It crept swiftly along the wall, at exactly my pace.

"Where the wall ends, near the turn of the road, it came down, and with a wiry spring or two brought itself close to my feet, and continued to keep up with me as I quickened my pace. It was at my left side, so close to my leg that I felt every moment as if I should tread upon it.

"The road was quite deserted and silent, and it was darker every moment. I stopped, dismayed and bewildered, turning as I did so, the other way — I mean, toward this house, away from which I had been walking. When I stood still, the monkey drew bade to a distance of, I

suppose, about five or six yards, and remained stationary, watching me.

"I had been more agitated than I have said. I had read, of course, something about 'spectral illusions’, as you physicians term the phenomena of such cases. I considered my situation, and looked my misfortune In the face.

"These affections, I had read, are sometimes transitory and sometimes obstinate. I had read of cases in which the appearance, at first harmless, had, step by step, degenerated into something direful and insupportable, and ended by wearing its victim out. Still as I stood there, but for my bestial companion, quite alone, I tried to comfort myself by repeating again and again the assurance, 'The thing is purely disease, a well-known physical affection, as distinctly as smallpox or neuralgia. Doctors are all agreed on that, philosophy demonstrates it. I must not be a foot I’ve been sitting up too late, and I dare say my digestion is quite wrong, and, with God’s help, I shall be all right, and this is but a symptom of nervous dyspepsia.’ Did I believe all this? Not one word of it, no more than any other miserable being ever did who is once seized in this Satanic captivity. Against my convictions, I might say my knowledge, I was simply bullying myself into a false courage.

"I now walked homeward. I had only a few hundred yards to go. I had forced myself into a sort of resignation, but I had not got over the sickening shock and the flurry of the first certainty of my misfortune.

"I made up my mind to pass the night at home. The brute moved close beside me, and I fancied there was the sort of anxious drawing toward the house which one sees in tired horses or dogs, sometimes, as they come toward home.

"I was afraid to go into town, I was (Please turn to page 13^)

L etters continue to come in to the Eyrie opposing or upholding our policy of printing one or two weird-scientific stories in each issue. Some of you want half the magazine to be devoted to pseudo-scientific tales; others ask that we bar out all science stories; but the preponderance of letters on this subject is in favor of a small percentage of pseudo-scientific tales, requesting only that such tales be truly weird. This seems to be a reasonable request, and we shall heed it.

Writes Carl J. Smith, of Port Felix, Nova Scotia, in a letter to the Eyrie: 'T want to say a few words re interplanetary stories before it’s all over. Interplanetary yarns are all right if they’re written that way, Svu'ely no one could want' a weirder story than On a Far World by Wilford Allen, or When the Green Star Waned by Nictzin Dyalhis, or A Message from Space by J. Schlossel, and weren’t they interplanetary.? It seems to me this is the big point most of your readers have missed in the controversy re this type of story. I dislike interplanetary stories as much as any one, if you mean the Interstellar Patrol stories or Buccaneers of Venus, but I think there’s a lot of difference between them and the first ones I mentioned.”

J. W. Hammond, of Alexandria, Virginia, writes to the Eyrie: 'T have been a constant reader of WaiRD Tales ever since it has been on the market, and I think it is the prince of all magazines. I wish to cast my vote in favor of weird-scientific and interplanetary stories. I want more stories by Otis Adelbert Kline. Buccaneers of Venus was wonderful. Hats off to Jack Williamson’s serial. Golden Blood.”

A letter from Katharine Buoy, of Grants Pass, Oregon, says: "I read Weird Tales every month, with more interest than I can express. Clark Ashton Smith, Edmond Hamilton and Seabury Quinn are among my favorites. I like stories of interplanetary space, reincarnation, vampires, and such stories as those of carnivorous plants and trees — I have really felt a sense of oppressive fear at times, when in deep wood, dim swamps, and in desert places where tlaere seems to be an imseen sentience that watches one. Fancy? — ^yes, but the mystery is there.”

Ian C. Knox writes from London, England: "Since you ask for readers’ opinions regarding interplanetary stories in your magazine, here is mine. By all means have them. 'Variety is the spice of life,’ you know.”

"I have been a constant reader of Weird Tales since 1926, and since then I have not been without a copy of this truly wonderful magazine,” writes Paul MacMeekim, of San Mateo, California. "I have just finished the May issue, and I congratulate you on your fine new serial by Jack Williamson, Golden Bloods It prom132



ises to be your greatest serial. By all means keep on printing serials. Two other superb stories in the May issue are Spawn of the Sea by Donald Wandrei, and Dead Man’s Belt by Hugh B. Cave. Let’s have more stories of these types. I would like to see more haunted castles and vampires in WT.”

Mrs. J. T. McCrorey, of Hollywood, California, writes to the Eyrie: "Your May number is one of the best yet. One thing you have been needing is a woman writer’s delicate touch to offset Howard’s and Quinn’s virile style. Mary Counselman supplied this in her story. The Girl with the Green Eyes, which I thought was the epitome of weirdness. Dead Man’s Belt is my second choice, and The Wheel is also a fine example of the super-quality stories you publish. Anent the interplanetary controversy, please let me add my vote against stories of this type. Give us supernatural fiction and I, for one, will continue to look forward eagerly for the next issue.’’

Writes Donald Allgeier, of Mountain Grove, Missouri: "Allow me to congratulate you on the May issue of WT. All the stories were excellent, and Golden Blood is superb. Jack Williamson is a real writer. I can hardly wait for the next installment. Dead Man’s Belt by Hugh Cave is a truly different story — gruesome and gripping.”

Richard Dodson, of Kirksville, Missouri, writes: "I wish to drop a note to the Eyrie of appreciation and commendation for the work of one of your authors, who, I believe, is not yet fully appreciated — Clark Ashton Smith. I have never seen such a consistently excellent Weird Tales author. His strange, beautifully worded stories can not be equaled for weird, fantastic atmosphere. Clark Ashton Smith looms superior to any other of your regular contributors. You can not give us too many stories by him. Please don’t discontinue the reprint section. Reprint more of the short stories from earlier issues of the magazine. I am sure they would be appreciated by all, especially by your more recent readers. Clark Ashton Smith has published four volumes of poetry; couldn’t you induce him to write some for WT?” [We share Mr. Dodson’s liking for Clark Ashton Smith’s verse, and we have already printed eighteen of his poems in this magazine. — ^The Editors.]

"Selecting a favorite story in the May Weird Tales is a very easy task,” writes J. D. Arden, of Detroit. "Dead Man’s Belt by Hugh B. Cave stands out prominently from the other stories (which are all excellent). Naturally, I vote it first place. Mr. Cave has firmly established himself with me as a ranking favorite, taking his place along with Howard, Quinn, Lovecraft, Hamilton, and Smith. Second place belongs to Donald Wandrei for his Spawn of the Sea, which contains enough shivers to satisfy the most hardened 'horror’ favorite.”

Writes James B. Lynch, Jr., of Pittsburgh: "My favorite authors are Clark Ashton Smith and Carl Jacobi, Smith is the invulnerable master of his work. His stories are a rich blending of literary perfection and inexhaustible imagination. Jacobi’s masterpiece. Revelations in Black, is one of the best stories I have seen in WT for a score of months. This writer is exceedingly accurate, like Smith, in delving beneath the common plot and technicalities in most stories, and bringing out a new literary quality, a new theory set to a new type of writing. Your reprint features are exceptional gems and add to the variety of stories in WT. A few issues ago



I came across a reprint called The Night Wire. To many readers, I presume, it established itself as a short, fairly interesting story; but to me it was one of the best stories I have ever read.”

"My favorite story in the May Weird Tales is The Girl with the Green Eyes," writes Mrs. C. G. McDowell, of Los Angeles. "Some time ago I wrote asking for witchcraft stories, and that tale certainly fills the bill! It is well written and full of action from beginning to end. I hope to see more stories by Mary Elizabeth Counselman. The Carven Image by Derleth and Schorer runs a close second — ^it is a very fine piece of work.”

"Dead Man’s Belt by Hugh B. Give is without doubt one of the finest pieces of work that Weird Tales has published in a long time,” writes J. C. Koekler, of Annandale, Minnesota. "The story has power and craftsmanship and suspense. It easily takes first place in the May issue. Please keep Clark Ashton Smith and Seabury Quinn busy writing stories for you, and let’s have another tale by Carl Jacobi soon.”

J. L. Grillo, of San Francisco, makes the following suggestion: "Enlarge the Eyrie into a more complete department. Print the letters of the readers in their entirety, a sort of exchange idea.”

Writes Gustave W. Buley, of Everett, Washington: "I have enjoyed many an evening with your unique publication; it is by far the best edited and written in the field. I hope that it continues to meet with the success which it richly deserves.”

Readers, what is your favorite story in this issue? The second installment of Jack Williamson’s eery serial. Golden Blood, won your votes as the most popular story in the May issue, and Hugh B. Cave’s unusual ghost-story. Dead Man’s Belt, won second place in your esteem.

My favorite stories in the July WEIRD TALES are:

Story Remarks

( 1 )

( 2 )

(3)

I do not like the following stories:

(1) Why?

( 2 )

r

It will help us to know what kind of I Reader’s name and address:

stories you want in Weird Tales if you I

will fill out this coupon and mail it to | '

The Eyrie, Weird Tales, 840 N. Michigan I

Ave., Chicago, 111. I



Green Tea

(Continued from page 131)

afraid of any one’s seeing and recognizing me. I was conscious of an irrepressible agitation in my manner. Also, I was afraid of any violent changes in my habits, such as going to a place of amusement, or walking from home in order to fatigue myself. At the hall door it waited till I mounted the steps, and when the door was opened entered with me.

"I drank no tea that night. I got cigars and some brandy and water. My idea was that I should act upon my material system, and by living for a while in sensation apart from thought, send myself forcibly, as it were, into a new groove.

“I came up here to this drawing-room. I sat just here. The monkey then got upon a small table that then stood there. It looked dazed and languid. An irrepressible uneasiness as to its movements kept my eyes always upon it. Its eyes were half closed, but I could see them glow. It was looking steadily at me. In all situations, at all hours, it is awake and looking at me. That never changes.

"I shall not continue in detail my narrative of this particular night. I shall describe, rather, the phenomena of the first year, which never varied, essentially. I shall describe the monkey as it appeared in daylight. In the dark, as you shall presently hear, there are peculiarities. It is a small monkey, perfectly black. It had only one peculiarity — a character of malignity — unfathomable malignity. During the first year it looked sullen and side. But this character of intense malice and vigilance was always underlying that surly languor. During all that time it acted as if on a plan of giving me as little trouble as was consistent with watching me. Its eyes were never off me. I have never lost sight of it, except in my sleep.

'd ^

The House of Hospitality and Good Cheer! Directly opposite the flowing fountains of Monument Circle — which lends an atmosphere of rest and solid comfort. 230 rooms at $1.30 to $2.30.

FRANK CWIUUAMS.Presnyent



Quiet restful location ISth St. and Capitol Blvd.





light or dark, day or night, since it came here, excepting when it withdraws for some weeks at a time, unaccountably.

"In total dark it is visible as in daylight. I do not mean merely its eyes. It is all visible distinctly in a halo that resembles a glow of red embers, and w'hich accompanies it in all its movements.

"When it leaves me for a time, it is always at night, in the dark, and in the same way. It grows at first uneasy, and then furious, and then advances toward me, grinning and shaking, its paws clenched, and at the same time there comes the appearance of fire in the grate. I never have any fire, I can’t sleep in the room where there is any; and it draws nearer and nearer to the chimney, quivering, it seems, with rage, and when its fury rises to the highest pitch, it springs into the grate, and up the chimney, and I see it no more.

"When first this happened, I thought I was released. I was now a new man. A day passed — a night — and no return, and a blessed week — a week — another week. I was always on my knees, Doctor Hesselius, always, thanking God and praying. A whole month passed of liberty, but on a sudden, it was with me again.

8. The Second Stage

“T T WAS with me, and the malice which -i- before was torpid under a sullen exterior, was now active. It was perfectly unchanged in every other respect. This new energy was apparent in its activity and its looks, and soon in other ways.

"For a time, you will understand, the change was shown only in an increased vivacity, and an air of menace, as if it was always brooding over some atrocious plan. Its eyes, as before, were never ofif me.”

“Is it here now?” I asked.

"No,” he replied, "it has been absent exactly a fortnight and a day — fifteen

days. It has sometimes been away so long as nearly two months, once for three. Its absence always exceeds a fortnight, although it may be but by a single day. Fifteen days having passed since I saw it last, it may return now at any moment.”

"Is its return,” I asked, "accompanied by any peculiar manifestation?”

"Nothing — no,” he said. "It is simply with me again. On lifting my eyes from a book, or turning my head, I see it, as usual, looking at me, and then it remains, as before, for its appointed time. I have never told so muA and so minutely before to any one.”

I perceived that he was agitated, and looking like death, and he repeatedly applied his handkerchief to his forehead; I suggested that he might be tired, and told him that I would call, with pleasure, in the morning, but he said;

"No, if you don’t mind hearing it all now. I have got so far, and I should prefer making one effort of it. When I spoke to Doctor Harley, I had nothing like so much to tell. You are a philosophic physician. You give spirit its proper rank. If this thing is real ■”

He paused, looking at me with agitated inquiry.

"We can discuss it by and by, and very fully. I will give you all I think,” I answered, after an interval.

"Very well. If it is anything real, I say, it is prevailing, little by little, and drawing me more interiorly into hell. Optic nerves, he talked of. Ah! well — there are other nerves of communication. May God Almighty help me! You shall hear.

"Its power of action, I tell you, had increased. Its malice became, in a way, aggressive. About two years ago, some questions that were pending between me and the bishop having been settled, I went down to my parish in Warwickshire,



anxious to find occupation in my profession. I was not prepared for what happened, although I have since thought I might have apprehended something like it.

"But I will first tell you about Kenlis, my parish.

"It was with me when I left this place for Dawlbridge. It was my silent travelling companion, and it remained with me at the vicarage. When I entered on the discharge of my duties, another change took place. The thing exhibited an atrocious determination to thwart me. It was with me in the church — in the readingdesk — in the pulpit — ^within the communion rails. At last it reached this extremity, that while I was reading to the congregation, it would spring upon the open book and squat there, so that I was unable to see the page. This happened more than once.

"I left Dawlbridge for a time. I placed myself in Doctor Harley’s hands. I did eveiything he told me. He gave my case a great deal of thought. It interested him, I think. He seemed successful. For nearly three months I was perfectly free from a return. I began to think I was safe. With his full assent I returned to Dawlbridge.

"I travelled in a chaise. I was in good spirits. I was more — I was happy and grateful. I was returning, as I thought, delivered from a dreadful hallucination, to the scene of duties which I longed to enter upon. It was a beautiful sunny evening, everything looked serene and cheerful, and I was delighted. I remember looking out of the window to see the spire of my church at Kenlis among the trees, at the point where one has the earliest view of it. It is exactly where the little stream that bounds the parish passes under the road by a culvert, and where it emerges at the to>dside, a stone with an

Just a block or two from everywhere— one and one-- half blocks from Union Station and two blocks from Traction Terminal

Ail Outside Rooms and each with bath

RADIO


Single

$2-00 $2-50

Double

$3.00 $3.50


ARTHUR ZINK, ManagingDirector

121 SOUTH ILLINOIS STREET



old inscription is placed. As we passed this point, I drew my head in and sat down, and m the corner of the chaise was the monkey.

"For a moment I felt faint, and then quite wild with despair and horror. I called to the driver, and got out, and sat down at the roadside, and prayed to God silently for mercy. A despairing resignation supervened. My companion was was me as I re-entered the vicarage. The same persecution followed. After a short struggle I submitted, and soon I left the place.

"I told you,” he said, "that the beast had before this become in certain ways aggressive. I will explain a little. It seemed to be actuated by intense and increasing fury, whenever I said my prayers, or even meditated prayer. It amounted at last to a dreadful interruption. You will ask, how could a silent immaterial phantom effect that? It was thus, whenever I meditated praying; it was always before me, and nearer and nearer.

"It used to spring on a table, on the back of a chair, on the chimney-piece, and slowly to swing itself from side to side, looking at me all the time. There is in its motion an indefinable power to dissipate thought, and to contract one’s attention to that monotony, till the ideas shrink, as it were, to a point, and at last to nothing — and unless I started up and shook off the catalepsy, I have felt as if my mind were on the point of losing itself. There are other ways,” he sighed heavily; "thus, for instance, while I pray with my eyes closed, it comes closer and closer, and I see it. I know it is not to be accounted for physically, but I do actually see it, though my lids are closed, and so it rocks my mind, as it were, and overpowers me, and I am obliged to rise from my knees. If you had ever yourself

known this, you would be acquainted with desperation.

9. T he T bird Stage

I ^ HEY talk of the optic nerves, and of spectral illusions, as if the organ of sight was the only point assailable by the influences that have fastened upon me — I know better. For two years in my direful case that limitation prevailed. But as food is taken in softly at the lips, and then brought under the teeth, as the tip of the little finger caught in a mill crank will draw in the hand, and the arm, and the whole body, so the miserable mortal who has been once caught firmly by the end of the finest fiber of his ner\'e, is drawn in and in, by the enormous machinery of hell, ujitil he is as I am. Yes, Doctor, as I am, for while I talk to you, and implore relief, I feel that my prayer is for the impossible, and my pleading with the inexorable.”

I endeavored to calm his visibly increasing agitation, and hold him that he must not despair.

While we talked, the night had overtaken us. The filmy moonlight was wide over the scene which the window commanded, and I said:

"Perhaps you would prefer having candles. This light, you know, is odd. I should wish you, as much as possible, under your usual conditions while I make my diagnosis.”

"All lights are the same to me,” he said, "except when I read or write; I care not if night were perpetual. I am going to tell you what happened about a year ago. The thing began to speak to me.”

"Speak! How do you mean — speak as a man does?”

"Yes; speak in words and consecutive sentences, with perfect coherence and ar- ( Please turn to page 140)


Coming Next Month

SIT to be a duel?” Costello asked.

"More like an execution — but not of the death sentence; that would be too easy,” the Frenchman answered. "Now go and leave me to my work.

garde!” he ordered sharply as the officers went out with their prisoners. "Karowli Singh, thou son and grandson of a stinking camel, if you defeat me you go free; if not I take such vengeance as is just!”

Like savage cats they faced each other, circling slowly round, eyes gleaming with as pitiless a glint as that their weapons caught from the uncertain lamplight.

Suddciily the rajah charged, simitar swinging like a whirling windmill — I heard the curved blade whistle through the air. De Grandin gave ground rapidly, skipped lightly back, making no attempt to meet his adversary’s steel.

'The Hindoo’s white teeth flashed in a snarling smile. "Coward, poltroon, aaven!” he taunted. "The gods fight with me; I, their chosen one ”

"Will dioose no more to torture helpless beasts and women, I damn think!” the Frenchman interrupted. "Cochon va!”

The trick was worked so quickly that I could not follow it; but it seemed as if he drove straight forward with his blade, then slacked his thrust in mid-stab and art a slashing S-shaped gash in the air before the other’s face. Whatever the technique, the result was instant, for the rajah’s sword seemed to fly from his hand as though he flung it from him, and a second later,..

You can not afl[ord to miss this blood-chilling story of venomous cobras, Hindoo vengeance and a beautiful dancing-girl. This tale about a brilliant exploit of Jules de Grandin will be published complete in next month’s Weird Tales.*

The Chosen of Vishnu

By SEABURY QUINN

— ALSO—

DEAD MEN WALK By Harold Ward

A gripping, spine-freezing story of evil occult powers and fearsome happenings at Sinister Lake — a powerful story of Black Magic.

THE SUPERIOR JUDGE By J. Paul Suter

The author of "Beyond the Door” tells an unusual and compelling story of the days when an eigbtyw-old child could be hanged by English law for hitting a court official with a stone.

THE OWL By F. A. M. Webster

A shivery story of one who had delved into forbidden murders and hidden lore — a tale of occult evil.

THE VAMPIRE AIRPLANE By Arlton Eadie

Count von Felhagen died gloriously, shot down from the sky in heroic battle — but what was that thing in his likeness that shattered the peace and quiet of an English country home?

August WEIRD TALES Out August 1




( Continued from page 138) ticulation; but there is a peculiarity. It is not like the tone of a human voice. It is not by my ears it reaches me — it comes like a singing through my head.

“This faculty, the power of speaking to me, will be my undoing. It won’t let me pray, it interrupts me with dreadful blasphemies. I dare not go on, I could not. Oh! Doctor, can the skill, and thought, and prayers of man avail me notliing?”

“You must promise me, my dear sir, not to trouble yourself with unnecessarily exciting thoughts; confine yourself strictly to the narrative of facts; and recollect, above all, that even if the thing that infests you be, you seem to suppose, a reality with an actual independent life and will, yet it can have no power to hurt you, unless it be given from above: its access to your senses depends mainly upon your physical condition — this is, under God, your comfort and reliance: we are all alike environed. It is only that in your case, the 'paries’, the veil of the flesh, the screOT, is a little out of repair, and sights and sounds are transmitted. We must enter on a new course, sir — be encouraged. I’ll give tonight to the careful consideration of the whole case.”

“You are very good, sir; you think it worth trying, you don’t give me quite up; but, sir, you don’t know, it is gaining such an influence over me: it orders me about, it is such a tyrant, and I’m growing so helpless. May God deliver me!”

“It orders you about — of course you mean by speech?”

“Yes, yes; it is always urging me to crimes, to injure others, or myself. You see. Doctor, the situation is urgent, it is indeed. When I was in Shropshire, a few weeks ago” (Mr. Jennings was speaking rapidly and trembling now, holding my arm with one hand, and looking in my face), “I went out one day with a party

of friends for a walk: my persecutor, I tell you, was with me at the time. I lagged behind the rest: the country near the Dee, you know, is beautiful. Our path happened to lie near a coal mine, and at the verge of the v/ood is a perpendicular shaft, they say, a hundred and fifty feet deep. My niece had remained behind with me — she knows, of course, nothing of the nature of my sufferings. She knew, however, that I had been ill, and was low, and she remained to prevent my being quite alone. As we loitered slowly on together, the brute that accompanied me was urging me to throw myself down the shaft. I tell you now — oh, sir, think of it! — the one consideration that saved me from that hideous death was the fear lest the shock of witnessing the occurrence should be too much for the poor girl. I asked her to go on and take her walk with her friends, saying that I could go no further. She made excuses, and the more I urged her the firmer she became. She looked doubtful and frightened. I suppose there was something in my looks or manner that alarmed her; but sTie would not go, and that saved me. You had no idea, sir, that a living man could be made so abject a slave of Satan,” he said, with a ghastly groan and a shudder.

There was a pause here, and I said, “You u/ere preserved nevertheless. It was the act of God. You are in His hands and in the power of no other being: be therefore confident for the future.”

10. Home

IMADE him have candles lighted, and saw the room looking cheery and inhabited before I left him. I told him that he must regard his illness strictly as one dependent on physical, though subtle physical causes. I told him that he had evidence of God’s care and love in the



deliverance which he had just described, and that I had perceived with pain that he seemed to regard its peculiar features as indicating that he had been delivered over to spiritual reprobation. Than such a conclusion nothing could be, I insisted, less warranted; and not only so, but more contrary to facts, as disclosed in his mysterious deliverance from that murderous influence during his Shropshire excursion. First, his niece had been retained by his side without his intending to keep her near him; and, secondly, there had been infused into his mind an irresistible repugnance to execute the dreadful suggestion in her presence.

As I reasoned this point with him, Mr. Jennings wept. He seemed comforted. One promise I exacted, which was that should the monkey at any time return, 1 should be sent for immediately; and, repeating my assurance that I would give neither time nor thought to any other subject until I had thoroughly investigated his case, and that tomorrow he should hear the result, I took my leave.

Before getting into the carriage I told the servant that his master was far from well, and that he should make a point of frequently looking into his room.

My own arrangements I made with a view to being quite secure from interruption. I merely called at my lodgings, and with a travelling-desk and carpet-bag, set off in a hackney carriage for an inn about two miles out of town, called "The Horns,” a very quiet and comfortable house, with good thick walls. And there I resolved, without the possibility of intrusion or distraction, to devote some hours of the night, in my comfortable sitting-room, to Mr. Jennings’ case, and so much of the morning as it might require.

I left town for the inn where I slept last night at half-past nine, and did not

SUPPRESSED KNOWLEDGE • OF THE AOEfJ

What sfr«ng* pow«rt did fh« mcI* ^

' •ntt pow*u7 Wh*r» w«s th* source of 1 tnowled 9 e thei mede it poscibie for them to perform miredes 7 Were these profound secrets Dumed wHh encient fibrertes, or are they buried beneath crumbfing Temple walk 7 These wise men of the past knew the mysterlea of Kfe, and personal power. This wisdom is not lost.^t is withheld from the inats. It is offered freely TO YOU if with an open mind, you wish to step out of the rut m monotoneua eaisHnce and MASTER YOUR UFE.

THIS rREE BOOK

Man's intolerance hat at timet swept Ms edtievements from the face of the earth, yet se^ c»et brotherhoods have preserved this sacred wisdom of the ages. The Rotierudans, one of these ancient b.-^therhoods, INVITE YOU to write and secure a free copy of the "Wisdom of the Sages." It will point out how you moy receive age^d truths. You can learn to MAKE YOUR LIFE ANEW->the fulfillment of your ideals awaits you. Address: (

Scribe H. S. C.


ISAN JOSE (AMORC) CAUFORNIA

' 1 ^..

Man Can Now Use


Have yon wondered why many dream of BuccesB and bappineu* but never

ffet i

good things of life T If veu have had visions of wonderful achievement and richeB, it is proof that they are posBible to obtain becanse they are part of your INNER POWER that esMbe

opher, has discovered a oew and revolutionary teaching which reveals this Inner Power.. within YOU.. BO dynamic and forceful that it can carry yon on to complete

j easy.

found It before.

> apply.

amazing t

Write today for FREE copy of Yogi Alpha’s “Key to Your Inner Power* whieh tells uie fascinating m ^

story of his discovery and reveals the as- Bd I# E E tounding Secret which can unlock the reser- m 1% E K voir of vast riches within YOU. Addrm ^

Psycho-Logic Institute, 98, Dept.G, to Your

San Diego, California. Innor Powof"

By Clark Ashton Smith

THE DOUBLE SHADOW & fivR other fantasies

For lovers of weird atmosphere and arabesque Imaeination. Unpublished heretofore. Send 26e (coin) to Clark Ashton Smith, Auburn, (3allf., for postpaid copy.


is on sale the 1st of every month



arrive at rriy room in town until one o’clock this afternoon. I found a letter in Mr. Jennings’ hand upon my table. It had not come by post, and, on inquiry, I learned that Mr. Jennings’ servant had brought it, and on learning that I was not to return until today, and that no one could tell him my address, he seemed very uncomfortable, and said that his orders from his master were that he was not to return without an answer.

I opened the letter and read:

Dear Doaor Hesselius, — It is here. You had not been an hour gone when it returned. It is speaking. It knows all that has happened. It knows everything — it knows you, and is frantic and atrocious. It reviles. I send you this. It knows every word I have written — I write. This I promised, and I therefore write, but I fear very confused, very incoherently. I am so interrupted, disturbed.

"Ever yours, sincerely yours,

"Robert Lyndbr Jennings."

"When did this come?” I asked.

"About eleven last night: the man was here again, and has been here three times today. The last time is about an hour since.”

Thus answered, and with the notes I had made upon his case in my pocket, I was in a few minutes driving toward Richmond, to see Mr. Jennings.

I by no means despaired of Mr. Jennings’ case. He had himself remembered and applied, though quite in a mistaken way, the principle whiA I lay down in my Metaphysical Medicine, and which governs all such cases. I was about to apply it in earnest. I was profoundly interested, and very anxious to see and examine him while the "enemy” was actually present.

IDROVE up to the somber house, and ran up the steps, and knocked. The door, in a little time, was opened by a tall woman in black silk. She looked ill, and as if she had been crying. She curtseyed, and heard my question, but she did not answer. She turned her face away, extending her hand toward two men who

were coming downstairs; and thus having tacitly made me over to them, she passed through a side-door.

I at once accosted the man who was nearest the hall, but I was shocked to see that both his hands were covered with blood. I drew back a little, and the man, passing downstairs, merely said in a low tone, "Here’s the servant, sir.”

The servant had stopped on the stairs, confounded and dumb at seeing me. He was rubbing his hands in a handkerchief, and it was steeped in blood.

"Jones, what is it? What has happened?” I asked, while a sickening suspicion overpowered me.

The man asked me to come up to the lobby. I was beside him in a moment, and, frowning and pallid, with contracted eyes, he told me the horror which I already half guessed.

His master had made away with himself.

I went upstairs with him to the room — what I saw there I won’t tell you. He had cut his throat with his razor. It was a frightful gash. The two men had laid him on the bed, and composed his limbs. It had happened, as the immense pool of blood on the floor declared, at some disstance between the bed and the window. In this somber and now terrible room, one of the great elms that darkened the house was slowly moving the shadow of one of its great boughs upon this dreadful floor.

I beckoned to the servant, and we went downstairs together. I turned off the hall into an old-fashioned panelled room, and there standing, I heard all the servant had to tell. It was not a great deal.

"I concluded, sir, from your words and looks, sir, as you left last night, that you thought my master seriously ill. I thought it might be that you were afraid of a fit, or something. So I attended verjr



close to your directions. He sat up late, till past three o’clock. He was not writing or reading. He was talking a great deal to himself, but that was nothing imusual. At about that hour I assisted him to undress, and left him in his slippers and dressing-gown. I went back softly in about half an hour. He was in his bed, quite undressed, and a pair of candles lighted on the table beside his bed. He was leaning on his elbow, and looking out at the other side of the bed when I came in. I asked him if he wanted anything, and he said 'No.’

"I don’t know whether it was what you said to me, sir, or something a little unusual about him, but I was uneasy, uncommon imeasy about him last night.

"In another half-hour, or it might be a little more, I went up again. I did not hear him talking as before. I opened the door a little. 'The candles were both out, which was not usual. I had a bedroom candle, and I let the light in, a little bit, looking softly round. I saw him sitting in that chair beside the dressing-table with his clothes on again. He turned round and looked at me. I thought it strange he should get up and dress, and put out the candles to sit in the dark, that way. But I only asked him again if I could do anything for him. He said, 'No,’ rather sharp, I thought. I asked if I might light the candles, and he said, 'Do as you like, Jones.’ So I lighted them, and I lingered about the room, and he said, 'Tell me truth, Jones; why did you come again — ^you did not hear any one cursing.^’ 'No, sir,’ I said, wondering what he could mean.

*' 'No,’ said he, after me, 'of course, no,’ and I said to him, 'Wouldn’t it be well, sir, you went to bed? It’s just five o’clock,’ and he said nothing but, 'Very likely; good-night, Jones.’ So I went, sir, but in less than an hour I came again.

Don't Miss...

The

Lion or Tiberias

By ROBERT E. HOWARD

This popular Weird Tales author pilots the Magic Carpet back to the stirring days of the Crusades, when Zenghi. Lord of Mosul and precursor of Saladin, rode up the glittering stairs of empire to his doom. You will be thrilled with the sweep of Mr. Howard’s style in this story, for he has caught all the glamor and flavor of a colorful age.



1160 Maritims Boildlu 6«ittl«,WasUiwtoa

To Any Suit!

1 Double ibe life of your coat and vest with conecUy matched Mnts.100y000 pattarnsJ^ ^ Eyery pair nand tailored to your measure; do ^'raadyrnadee/* Our match sent FREE for yoor O. K. before pants are made. Fit guaranteed, ••nd pleee of cloth or voat today.

SUPERIOR MATCH PANTS COMPANY tlS So. Doart>om Stroet* Dept. S82 Chicase


For complete list and prices write to WsrRO Talus, 840 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago, 111.




Dead Men

Walk

By HAROLD WARD

AGRIPPING, Spine-freezing weirdscientific story of evil occult powers and fearsome happenings at Sinister Lake — a powerful tale of Black Magic.

T his is a story of stark horror that will capture your imagination and hold you in the spell of its sensational events. It is a tale of corpses — men who had been dead for many days — revivified and walking in a weedgrown garden filled with loathsome reptiles and poisonous plants. This navelette of walking cadavers filched from their graves in the cemetery will be printed complete

in the August issue of


on sale August 1st

To ovoid mitshg your topy, clip and mail this coupon today for SPECIAL SUBSCRIPTION OFFER.

WmBSa TALES,

840 N. Michisitn Ato.,

Ctdemgo, lU.

Enclosed ftnd $1.00 for which send me the next fixe Isiuee of WEIRD TADES to begin with the Augrust issue ($1.75 in Canada). Special offer void unless remittance is accompanied by coupon.

The door was fast, and he heard me, and called as I thought from the bed to know what I wanted, and he desired me not to disturb him again. I lay down and slept for a little.

"It must have been between six and seven when I went up again. The door was still fast, and he made no answer, so I did not like to disturb him, and thinking he was asleep, I left him till nine. It was his custom to ring when he wished me to come, and I had no particular hour for calling him. I tapped very gently, and getting no answer, I stayed away a good while, supposing he was getting some rest then. It was not till eleven o’clock I grew really uncomfortable about him — for at the latest he was never, that I could remember, later than half -past ten. I got no answer. I knocked and called, and still no answer. So not being able to force the door, I called Thomas from the stables, and together we forced it, and found him in the shocking way you saw.”

Jones had no more to tell. Poor Mr. Jennings was very gentle, and very kind. All his people were fond of him. I could see that the servant was very much moved.

So, dejected and agitated, I passed from that terrible house, and its dark canopy of elms, and I hope I shall never see it more. While I write, I feel like a man who has but half waked from a frightful and monotonous dream. My memory rejects the picture with incredulity and horror. Yet I know it is true. It is the story of the process of a poison, a poison which excites the reciprocal action of spirit and nerve, and paralyzes the tissue that separates those cognate functions of the senses, the external and the interior. Thus we find strange bed-fellows, and the mortal and immortal prematurely^ make acquaintance.

W.T,— »


r TyyvyTyyTyTyvyvwwvrywyyv¥WY¥vwv¥¥¥wwvw¥vy¥¥YwvrvvY^ ' WVw r vw <»

Free Book!

If you haven’t read this thrilling Chinese story you have missed one of the strangest stories ever told. Exciting incidents follow in such quick succession that the interest in the story is at white heat all of the time.

This book is beautifully bound in rich cloth, with attractive colored jacket. It is our gift to you and will make a valuable addition to your library.

YOU will want to read the thrilling adventures of Dr. Ferdinand Gresham, the eminent American astronomer, in his encounters with Kwo-Sung-tao, high priest of the SeunH’sin (the Sect of Two Moons). The Suen-H’sin are the sorcerers of China, and the most murderously diabolical breed of human beings on this earth. Each turn of the page increases the suspense when you follow Dr. Gresham to take part in the hellish ceremonies in the Temple of the Moon God — when he crosses the Mountains of Pear — half starves on the dead plains of Dzunsz'chuen — swims the River of Death — sleeps in the Caves of Nganhwiu, where the hot winds never cease and the dead light their can>pflres on their journey to Nirvana. Here is a story that will thrill you.

Amazing Subscription Offer

This book formerly sold for the regular price of 11.50. Now you can have it free for a limited time only with a six months’ subscription to AVEIRD TALES. Simply send $1.50, the regular six months’ subscription price for WEIRD

TALES, and this splendid book is yours absolutely free. A $3.00 value for $1.50. You receive the magazine for six months and this book is sent to you free of charge.

This offer may be withdrawn at any time, so we advise you to order now. Remember, the supply of books is limited. Send today!

WEIRD TALES,

840 N. Michigan Ave., Dept. S-34.

Chicago, m.

WEIRD TALES, Dept. -34,

840 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago, III.

I enclose $1.50. Send at once, postage prepaid, the book ‘ The Moon Terror," and enter ray subscription to WEIRD 'TALES for six months. It is understood this $1.50 is payment in full.

Name

City State-

[THE END]
