============================================================
Weird Tales
Volume , Number 
Date: April 1928
============================================================
============================================================
TABLE OF CONTENTS

  1. "Remembrance_Robert E" by Howard
  2. "The Fantasmal Terror" by Willis Overton
  3. "The Legend of St. Julian.." by Gustave Flaubert
============================================================
============================================================
REMEMBRANCE_ROBERT E
by Howard
============================================================
the hand of Fate?) the huge bat had fallen into the burning sulfur in its last convulsive struggle, so that its entire upper half was a charred and formless mass. . . .

REMEMBRANCE

By ROBERT E. HOWARD

Eight thousand years ago a man I slew;

I lay in wait beside a sparkling rill There in an upland valley green and still.

The white stream gurgled where the rushes grew;

The hills were veiled in dreamy hazes blue.

Ho came along the trail; with savage skill My spear leaped like a snake to make my kill—

Leaped like a striking snake and pierced him through.

And still when blue haze dreams along the sky And breezes bring the murmur of the sea,

A whisper thrills me where at ease I lie Beneath the branches of some mountain tree;

He comes, fog-dim, the ghost that will not die,

And with accusing finger points at me.

The Story Thus Far

/CUNNINGHAM and Gray go to the hills of New Hampshire to investigate a settlement of foreigners living there—a Strange People who have never seen a revolver, who strike from am¬ bush by throwing sharp knives, who use strange¬ ly minted gold coins, and who keep aloof from everybody but themselves. A third man, who comes on the train with Cunningham and Gray, is found stabbed to death—the work of the Strange People. His brother, Vladimir, a sinister person¬ age who is hated and regarded with terror by the Strange People, bribes the sheriff to Keep Cun¬ ningham and Gray away from them. Cunning¬ ham, braving the flying knives of the Strange People to find Maria, one of their girls, rescues her from the sheriff. Maria brings her father, Stephan, to Cunningham’s hotel room at night, and Stephan offers him a bag of shining goldpieces in gratitude for his rescue of Maria, and asks him for advice as to what they shall do if the sheriff’s men again try to capture men of the Strange People. Maria and her father slip out the window into the night. Cunningham hears a scream from Maria, a shot, and then Vladi¬ mir’s purring voice gloating:_ "HaI I got her!”


W ITH a face like death Cun¬ ningham flung through the door. He sped down the steps with his heart, it seemed, stopped dead. There were sounds behind him and angry voices. Gray roaring at Vladimir, perhaps. But Cunningham could think of nothing but Maria.

The darkness smote his eyes like, a blow. He stumbled and fell, then started up, crying out wildly.

A figure flitted up to him and put a soft hand over his mouth.

“Hush! Hush! I am safe,” she whispered breathlessly. “He saw us about the sheriff, and fired. When he saw the sheriff fall he thought I was killed. Hush! ’ ’

IKD TAXES for March




Cunningham’s arms were about her and he kissed her in an ecstasy of relief.

“If he’d killed you!’’ he gasped. ‘ ‘ If he’d killed you! ’ ’

Feet thundered indoors.

“I must go! ” she whispered swift¬ ly. “Please!”

She thrust him away and fled. Figures were waiting for her. She joined them, and all melted into nothingness beneath the trees. Then Gray stumbled outside with his hand in Vladimir’s collar.

“Did he get her, Cunningham?” he cried shakenly. “If he did, I swear I’ll fling him to them! Did he get her?”

“N-no,” said Cunningham un¬ evenly. He wiped the sweat off his forehead. “They’re all gone. But-”

He knelt beside a dark bundle on the ground. A groan came to his ears, curiously muffled. He struck a match and found the sheriff secure¬ ly trussed up and blinking at the match-flame with panic-stricken eyes.

“It’s the sheriff,” said Cunning¬ ham. ‘ ‘ Maybe he’s hurt. ’ ’

But a babble of words that began before the gag was completely out of his mouth proved that the sheriff was only scared.

“Scared green, that’s all,” said Gray curtly. He shook Vladimir as a terrier might shake a rat. “You thought there were burglars?” he roared. “Try to get away with that again! You aimed for that girl!”

He tossed Vladimir to the ground, wrathfully.

“What girl?” purred Vladimir, as he scrambled to his feet. “Was there a girl? Are you in communi¬ cation with my brother’s murderers? And helping them to escape, too? I think you will go to jail, my friend. ”

But Gray went indoors with Cun¬ ningham, laughing.

W hen day came again Cunning¬ ham awoke with the conviction that something very pleasant had happened. He puzzled vaguely over it for a long time. And then he realized that it was a thing that had come to him just before he slept and had made his heart pump faster and more loudly. When he kissed Maria, she had not struggled nor been angry. On the contrary she had lifted her lips to his. And yet it had been no practised gesture, but the response of sheer instinct to one man only.

Cunningham’s heart pounded a little and he got up with a serene contentment filling him. The route to romance had led him to happiness, he was sure.

He went downstairs and went out on the porch just to look up at the hills in which he would find her presently.

Vladimir was there, talking to a newcomer whose clothing and air confirmed the guess that he was a servant. But not an ordinary serv¬ ant. His face was gross and stupid where Vladimir’s was keen and cruel, but his features had no less of instinctive arrogance, though veiled by servility at the moment.

Vladimir’s lips twitched into a snarl of hatred when he saw Cun¬ ningham, and he spoke to his serv¬ ant. The man looked at Cunningham and scowled.

But Cunningham went indoors and had breakfast joyously. Then he started out to find Maria. Tech¬ nically, as he reflected, he was com¬ pounding a felony in going to the Strange People to advise them how to keep out of the clutches of the law. Some of them had been in¬ volved in the killing of Vladimir’s brother. But Cunningham beamed as he clambered up the steep hillside toward those mysterious thickets in which the Strange People lurked.

He had gone up perhaps half the way when he heard a faint rustling

THE STRANGE PEOPLE


behind him. He turned and shouted, thinking it a Stranger who would lead him to Stephan and Maria. But the rustling stopped. After a little while he went on, frowning. Later the rustling began again, somewhat nearer.

And then Cunningham heard whistles far off in the thickets. He heard other rustlings, as if men were moving swiftly through the under¬ growth. These last sounds came from both sides of him. And then he came suddenly upon a young Stranger, running headlong toward him with- his hand on his knife-hilt. The Stranger lifted his hand, unsmilingly, and ran on.

* ‘ Stephan, ’ ’ cried Cunningham; “where is he?”

The runner waved for Cunningham to continue as he was going and dis¬ appeared. The mysterious sounds continued, to right and to left. Then everything was abruptly very still.

Cunningham halted uncertainly. There was no trace of a path any¬ where. The earth fell away sharply at one side but he had lost all sense of direction and did not know which way to go. Then he heard a thrash¬ ing below him as if someone were moving rapidly to cut him off.

Then there was the sound of pant¬ ing near by and a small boy ran into view. He was a young Stranger, an aquiline-nosed, brown-eyed young¬ ster with the legs of a race-horse.

‘ ‘ Hi, there, ’ ’ shouted Cunningham. “Where’s Stephan?”

The boy gasped in relief and flew toward him. He thrust a bit of pa¬ per into Cunningham’s hand and stood panting. Cunningham un¬ rolled the scrap. On it was written in awkward letters:

“Someone follows to kill you. What will happen if we kill him?”

Cunningham started. Vladimir! He’d sent his servant to bushwhack him.

“They’ll hang,” he said grimly. “Tell them not to do it.”

The boy nodded and started off.

“ Wait! ” called Cunningham. “Will they stop, since I’ve said so?”

“No,” panted the boy. “They kill him already, I think.”

He sped away, down toward the spot where the thrashing in the bushes sounded as if someone were trying to head Cunningham off. Cun¬ ningham clenched his fists and ran after him, determined to stop the foolishness.

The boy vanished suddenly. A figure started up.

“ Wait! He lives yet! Wait! ’ ’

But Cunningham plunged on, not understanding. He only hoped to be in time to keep the Strangers from worse trouble than they were already in.

He burst through a thicket as warning cries sounded suddenly from all sides. And there was Vladimir’s servant, staring stupidly about him in sudden fright at the sound of many voices. He was waisthigh in brushwood. He swerved in panic at the sound of Cunningham’s rush; then his face lighted with ferocity. With lightning quickness he had leveled a weapon and fired.

Cunningham’s life was due to the fact that he had just tripped upon one of the innumerable small boul¬ ders strewn all over the slopes. He was falling as the bullet left the gun. He felt a searing pain in his left shoulder and crashed to the ground. Maria’s voice shrilled in anguish.

“Dead! He is killed!”

The breath was knocked out of Cunningham, but he struggled to shout that he was all right, and was afraid to because the servant might pot at him again.

But then he heard half a dozen little metallic clangings, like the rattle of steel knife-blades on rock. The air was full of minor whirrings. And then he heard a sudden agon¬ ized bellow, like the roaring of a



wounded bull. And then a man screaming in horrible terror.


T here was an air of formality, even of solemnity, in the gather¬ ing that faced Cunningham several hours later. A full two hundred Strangers were gathered in a little glade with slanting sides that formed a sort of amphitheater. Scouts were hidden in the woods beyond.

And Maria was there, with a white and stricken face which dashed Cun¬ ningham’s joyous mood. Vladimir’s servant was there too, ashen with dread and with a .crude bandage about his arm where a throwing-knife had gone through his muscles as he tried to shoot Cunningham a second time. And Stephan, Maria’s father, with his features worn and very weary.

Cunningham’s shoulder had been dressed with crushed plantain-leaves. It was a tiny wound at best, hardly worth more than adhesive plaster. The bullet had barely nicked the skin, but Maria had wept over it as she bound it up.

Cunningham had felt that this was no time for common sense. He knew.

“I love you,” he whispered as she bent down above him.

Brimming eyes met his for an instant.

“And I love you,” she said with a queer soft fierceness. “I tell you, because I will never see you again. I love you!”

Cunningham felt a nameless dread. Stephan looked at him with dreary, resolute eyes. Maria’s lips were pinched and bloodless. The Stran¬ gers regarded him with somber faces which were not unfriendly, but perturbingly sympathetic.

The gathering seemed to be some¬ thing like a court. The women were gathered around the outer edges. The men stood about a rock on which Stephan had seated himself. Maria

stood beside him. Cunningham found himself thrust gently forward.

“My friend,” said Stephan wea¬ rily, “you find us gathered in coun¬ cil. Men say that you kissed my daughter, Maria. ’ ’

Cunningham flushed, then stood straight.

“I did,” he said evenly. “I ask your permission to marry her. Is it a crime for me to speak to her first and have her answer ? ’ ’

Stephan shook his head wearily.

“No. No crime. And if you were one of us I would be glad. I think you are a man. I would join your hands myself. But you are not of our people.”

“And who are you,” demanded Cunningham, “that I am not fit to marry into?”

Stephan’s voice was gentle and quaintly sympathetic.

“We have killed one man who knew the answer to that question,” he said in the teasing soft unfamiliar accent that all the Strange People had. “We do not wish to kill you. And you are not unfit to marry my daughter. My daughter, or any of us, is not fit to marry you.”

Cunningham shook his head.

“Let me be the judge of that.”

Again Stephan made a gesture of negation.

“I think you are our friend,” he said heavily. “We need a friend of those who are not like us. We may die because we have not such a friend. But you must come here no more. What says the council?”

A murmur went up about the amphitheater—a murmur of agree¬ ment. Cunningham whirled with clenched fists, expecting to see hos¬ tile faces. Instead, he saw friendly sorry ones.

“He must not come again,” ran the murmur all about the crowd, in the faint and fascinating dialect that could not ever be identified. Men gazed at Cunningham with a perTHE STRANGE PEOPLE


turbing sympathy while they ban¬ ished him.

“But why?” demanded Cunning¬ ham fiercely. “I am your friend. T came hundreds of miles because the picture of Maria drew me. I re¬ fused offers of bribes. That man” —he pointed at Vladimir’s servant— “tried to kill me only today, only because I am your friend. And what have I asked of you ? If Maria tells me to go, I will go. But other¬ wise-”

Stephan put his hand on Cunning¬ ham’s shoulder.

“You must not come again,” he said quietly, “because Maria loves you also. Our people know such things quickly. She has said that she loves you. And we dare not let our women marry any man but one of ourselves. It is not that we hate you. We kept that man from kill¬ ing you today, and we would have killed him if you said so. We will kill him for you now, if you tell us. But we dare not let one of our women marry you. So you must go.”

“Will Maria tell me to go?” de¬ manded Cunningham fiercely.

“Yes,” said Maria, dry-lipped. “Go! Oh-h-h-h. Go, if you love me!”

She flung herself down upon the grass and sobbed. Some of the women murmured to each other and one or two moved forward and patted her shoulders comfortingly.

“She tells you to go,” said Ste¬ phan wearily, “because we would have to kill you otherwise.”

“But why? Why?” demanded Cunningham desperately.

Stephan rose from his seat and spread out his hands.

“Because no woman can ever keep a secret from the man she loves,” he said wearily. “Some day she would tell you who we are. And then you would hate her and hate us. You would turn from her in horror, and you would denounce us. And we would die, swiftly. I am not happy, my son. Maria is my daughter and

I would see her happy. But some day she would tell you who we are-”

Cunningham found himself being crowded gently away from Maria. He thrust himself fiercely against the pressure.

* ! But who are you ? ” he cried sav¬ agely. “Dammit, I don’t care who you are! You’re making her cry! Let me pass! Let me get-”

Stephan made a gesture. With the quickness of lightning Cunning¬ ham was seized by a hundred hands. He fought like a fiend against the innumerable grips that clasped his hands, his arms, his feet. But they were too many. He stopped his struggling, panting, and stared rag¬ ing at Stephan.

“We give you a gift,” said Ste¬ phan quietly. “Gold, my son. Much gold. Because if Vladimir tells our secrets we will all be killed, and he threatens to tell.”

“I don’t want your money,” panted Cunningham savagely. “ 1 want this silly mystery ended! 1 want Maria! I want-”

“Go in peace,” said Stephan drearily.

Cunningham was laid upon the ground and tied fast. He struggled with every ounce of his strength, but in vain. The Strange People were too many and too' resolute. But they seemed to take pains not to injure him. Indeed, when they put him in a litter and started off with him. there seemed to be a consistent effort by the bearers not to make him even uncomfortable.

Cunningham raged and tore at his bonds. Then he subsided into a sav¬ age silence. His lips were set into a grim firmness. Maria sobbing upon the grass . . . this abominable sympathy for him. . . .

The litter stopped. They took him out and cut his bonds. They offered him the bags of hammered goldpieces again.


“I don’t want them,” he said with grim politeness. “I warn you, I’m coming back.”

The leader of his escort was the young man who had first come out of the woods the first time Cunning¬ ham had seen the Strangers. He nodded gravely.

”1 know,” he said quietly. “I loved a girl not of our people, last year.”

The litter-bearers had vanished into the woods. Cunningham snatched at a straw of hope. Per¬ haps here was a friend, or even a source of help.

“You understand,” he said in a hurried, eager undertone. “Perhaps we can-”

“I gave her up,” said the young stranger quietly. “My people would have killed her if I had married her. You see, I might have told her.”

He shrugged and pointed off through the woods.

“Coulters is there,” he said grave¬ ly. “You would not take gold. I am sorry. But we think you are a man. ’ ’

“I’m coming back,” said Cunning¬ ham grimly.

The Stranger nodded and touched Ihe hilt of his knife regretfully. He swung away and vanished in the underbrush.

Cunningham started toward Coul¬ ters. He knew they would be watch¬ ing him. But perhaps a quarter of a mile on the way he stopped. He heard nothing and saw nothing. He slipped aside into the woods. And he had gone no more than a dozen paces before there was a little gold¬ en glitter in a ray of the dying sun. A knife had flashed past his face not two feet away. He turned back, raging.

Later he tried again. And again a warning knife swept across the path before him.


C unningham had nearly reached the valley in which the hotel was built when he saw Gray below him, climbing sturdily up into the eyrie of the Strange People. Gray had a rifle slung over his shoulder.

‘ ‘ Gray! ’ ’ shouted Cunningham. Gray stared and abruptly sat down and mopped his forehead. He wait¬ ed for Cunningham to reach him.

“Damn you, Cunningham,” he said expressionlessly, “I like you, you know, for all I think we may be working against each other. And word’s just gone in to Bendale that you’ve been killed by the Strangers. I was going up in hopes of getting to you before they wiped you out. And I already had cold chills down my back, thinking of the knife that nearly went into it yesterday.”

“I’m safe enough,’’ said Cunning¬ ham bitterly, “but I’m run out of the hills.”

“Best thing, maybe,” said Gray. “I’m hoping, but I think there ’ll be fighting there tonight. A posse’s going to raid the Strangers after dark. ’ ’

11 I’m going to raid the hills to¬ night,” said Cunningham fiercely, “and bring Maria away with me. I’ll marry her in spite of all the Strangers in creation.”

Gray grunted as he heaved to his feet. “You’re a fool, Cunningham, and I’m another. If you go, I go too. I might learn something, anyhow.”

Cunningham poured out the story of what had happened to him dur¬ ing the day, as they made their way down to the hotel. The sole objec¬ tion to him lay in the fact, that if Maria loved him, some day she would tell him who the Strangers were. And she did love him. Vladimir was the only outsider who knew their secret and he was threatening to disclose it, on what penalty Cun¬ ningham did not know.

THE STRANGE PEOPLE


“Maybe,” said Gray quietly, “it would be a good thing if Vladimir did tell what he knows. But I sus¬ pect he won’t, and for your sake I’d like to see you safely married to that girl you’re so keen about before he did start to talk. I’m with you to¬ night, Cunningham.”

“Better stay behind,” said Cun¬ ningham curtly. “They’ll be watch¬ ing for me.”

“No,” said Gray quietly.' “I sent some wires today and they may not be strong enough. Two of us might get her out where one wouldn’t. And I’m thinking that if you do marry her and she does tell you the secret of the Strangers, it might avert a tragedy. I’ve done all I can without certain knowledge. Now, watch your tongue when we reach the'hotel.”

C unningham: ignored the raging astonishment with which Vladi¬ mir saw him, and was savagely amused at the worriment the man showed. Vladimir had sent his serv¬ ant after Cunningham to kill him, and had been so certain of the at¬ tainment of that object that he had already broadcast a tale of Cunning¬ ham ’s death which laid it at the Strangers ’ door.

Cunningham waited for darkness. He was sure he had been watched back to the hotel. But after dark¬ ness was complete and before the moon rose he and Gray slipped secretly out of the house. They struck off down the valley, and when the monstrous ball of the full moon floated over the hills to the east, they made their way beneath thick trees, lest the moonlight show them to hidden watchers. They had gone perhaps a mile when Gray pointed suddenly upward.

Far, far up, where a tree-grown peak ended in a bald and rocky knob, fires were burning. Plainly visible in the clear night air, it could be seen that there were many fires

and many people about them. Through the stillness, too, there came half-determinate sounds which might have been singing, or chant¬ ing, or some long-continued musical wailing.

The moon was shining down upon the valley, with its tidy New Eng¬ land farmhouses—upon Coulters, where uncomfortable rural police officers tried to convince themselves that they would be quite safe in dealing with the Strange People— upon Bendale, with its electric lights and once-a-week motion picture the¬ ater. And the same moonlight struck upon a ring of fires high up in the mountains where the Stran¬ gers moved and crouched. Old women gave voice to the shrill la¬ ment that was floating thinly through the air.

Gray glanced once at Cunning¬ ham’s face and if he had been about to speak, he refrained. Cunningham was making grimly for the hills.

The woods were dark. The two men crept through long tunnels of blackness, where little speckles of moonlight filtered through unex¬ pectedly and painted the tree-trunks in leopard-spots. The valley had been calm, but as they climbed, the wind began to roar over their heads, rushing among the tree-branches with a growling sound. That noise masked the sound of their move¬ ments. Once they saw one of the Strangers cross a patch of clear moonlight before them. He was moving softly, listening as he half trotted, half walked.

“Sentry,” whispered Gray.

Cunningham said nothing. They went on, and heard voices murmur¬ ing before them in a foreign tongue. They halted and swung to the right. Perhaps two hundred yards on they tried again to continue up toward the heights. A crashing in the underbrush made them freeze. A Stranger trotted within five paces of them, peering about him cautiously.



Only their immobility saved them from detection.

When he had gone they made for the spot from which he had eome. It was breathless work because at any instant a liquid 'little glitter in the moonlight—a throwing-knife— might be the only herald of a silent and desperate attack.

But they made their way on and upward. It seemed as if they had passed through the ring of sentries. The trees grew thinner. The wind roared more loudly above their heads. And suddenly they saw the glow of many fires before them.

If they had gone carefully before, now they moved with infinite pains to make no noise. A single voice was chanting above the wind’s screaming. Gray listened and shook his head.

“I thought I knew most languages by the sound of them,” he whis¬ pered, “or could guess at the family anyhow. I worked on Ellis Island once. But I never heard that one.”

They went dorwn on their hands and knees for the last hundred yards. Then they could see. And Cunningham stared with wide eyes, while Gray swore in whispers, shak¬ ing with excitement.

There were a dozen huge bonfires placed in a monster circle twenty yards across. They roared fiercely as the flames licked at the great logs they fed upon. And the wind was sweeping up from the valley and roaring through them and around them and among them.

The rushing of the wind and the roaring of the fires made a steady, throbbing note that was queerly hypnotic. The flames cast a lurid light all around, upon the trees, and the rocks, and the Strange People, and the vast empty spaces where the earth fell away precipitously.

A single aged man chanted in the center of the twelve huge beacons. He was clad in a strange, barbaric fashion such as Cunningham had

never seen before. And the Strange People had clasped hands in a great circle that went all about the blazes, and as the old man chanted they trotted steadily around and around without a pause or sound.

The old man halted his chant and cried a single sentence in that un¬ known tongue. From the men in the circle came a booming shout, as they sped with gathering speed about the flames. Again he cried out, and again the booming, resonant shout came from the men.

“The sunwise turn,” panted Gray.

‘ ‘ Widdershins! It’s magic, Cunning¬ ham, magic! In New Hampshire, in these days!”

But Cunningham was thinking of no such things as magic, white or black. He was searching among the running figures for Maria. But he did not see her. The barbaric garb of the Strangers confused his eyes. That costume was rich and splendid and strange and utterly beyond be¬ lief in any group of people only eight miles from a New England mill-town with an accommodation train once a day.

“Magic!” cried Gray again in a whisper. “Cunningham, nobody’ll believe it! They won’t, they daren’t believe it! It’s impossible!”

But Cunningham was lifting him¬ self up to search fiercely for a sight of the girl he had found at the end of the route to romance and to high adventure. Here were strange sights that matched any of the imaginative novels on which aforetime he had fed his hunger for romance. Here was a scene such as he had imagined in the midst of posting ledgers and day-books in a stuffy office on Canal Street. And Cunningham did not notice it at all, because he was no longer concerned with adventure. He had found that. He was fiercely resolved now to find the girl who loved him and whose love had been forbidden by the laws of the strange folk of the hills.

THE STRANGE PEOPLE


He saw her. Not in the circle. She was crouched down on the grass amid a group of women. Rebellion was in every line of her figure. Cun¬ ningham loosened his revolver. It was madness, butA shout rang out sharply. And the running line of men broke and milled. Cunningham saw a hundred hands flash to as many knife-hilts. He saw the sheriff and four fright¬ ened-looking constables come plung¬ ing out of the brushwood, shouting something inane about halting in the name of the law. There was a shout and a scream, and then a man’s voice raised itself in a wild yell of com¬ mand and entreaty. Cunningham’s own name was blended in a sentence in that unintelligible language.

The Strangers darted for the en¬ circling woods. The women van¬ ished, Maria among them. There was only a blank space in the open lighted by monster flames, and the sheriff and two constables struggling with a single figure of the Strangers.

“Go git ’em!” roared the sheriff, holding fast to the captive. “Git ’em! They’re scared. Ketch as many as ye kin!”

Cunningham felt Gray holding him down in an iron grasp.

“Don’t be a fool!” rasped Gray in a whisper. “It’s too late! The Strangers got away, all but one.”

The other men were racing about here and there. They found nothing but a bit of cloth here, and a wom¬ an’s embroidered cap there, left be¬ hind in the sudden flight.

The struggle in the open space ceased abruptly. The sheriff tri¬ umphantly called to the others.

“I got one now! Dun’t be scared! We got a hostage!” He reared up and yelled to the surrounding for¬ est: “Dun’t ye try any o’ your knife-throwin’ tricks! This feller we got, if we dun’t get down safe, he dun’t neither! Dun’t ye try any rescuin’!”

He bent down to jerk his prisoner upright. And Cunningham heard him gasp. He chattered in sudden stillness and the others huddled about him.

“Dead!” gasped one of them.

“He stabbed hisself, I tell ye,” shrilled the sheriff. “He stuck his own knife in hisself!”

The five ungainly figures stared at each other, there amidst the roaring, deserted bonfires. One of them be¬ gan to whimper suddenly.

“They—they’ll be throwin’ their knives all the way down to the val¬ ley ! ” he gasped. ‘ ‘ They ’ll be hidin’ behind trees an’ a-stabbin' at us.”

The sheriff’s teeth began to chat¬ ter. The others clutched their weap¬ ons and gazed affrightedly at the woods encircling them.

“We—we got to try it,” gulped the sheriff, shivering. “We got to! Else they’ll get guns an’ kill us here. If—if ye see {jmything movin’, shoot it! Dun’t wait! If ye see anything, shoot. ...”

With staring, panic-stricken eyes, they made for the woods. Cunning¬ ham heard them crashing through the undergrowth in the darkness, whimpering and gasping in terror at every fancied sound.

They left behind them nothing but twelve great fires that began slowly to burn low, and a crumpled figure in barbaric finery lying with his face upturned toward the sky. It was the young Stranger who only that afternoon had told Cunningham of the girl he had loved and lost be¬ cause she was not of the Strange Peo¬ ple. He had stabbed himself when captured, rather than be taken out of the hills and forced to tell the secret of the Strangers.


B y morning the outside valleys were up in arms. One man— the foreigner of the train— had been killed by the Strange People, and



a servant of Vladimir’s had disap¬ peared among them. And witchcraft had been believed in not too long ago in those parts. The wild cere¬ mony of the Strangers among their blazing fires was told and retold, and with one known killing to their dis¬ credit and the long-smoldering ha¬ tred they had inspired, at the end it was related as devil-worship un¬ diluted. Something out of Scripture came to be put in it and men told each other—and firmly believed— that children were being kidnaped and sacrificed to the Moloch out of the Old Testament. The single Stranger who had been killed be¬ came another human sacrifice, con¬ fusingly intermingled with the other and more horrible tale, and there was no doubt in the mind of any of the local farmers that the Strangers planned unspeakable things to all not of their own kind.

Had any Stranger been seen with¬ out the hills, he would have been mobbed by an hysterical populace. Sober, God-fearing men huddled their families together and stood guard over them. Women watched their children with their, husbands’ shotguns in their hands. Wilder and ever wilder rumors sped with light¬ ning speed from homestead to home¬ stead in the valleys.

And all this was done without malice. The native-bom people had distrusted the Strange People be¬ cause they were strange. They dis¬ liked them because they were aloof* And they came to hate them because they were mysterious. It is always dangerous to be a mystery. The story of what the sheriff and his four constables had seen among the fires on the heights became enlarged to a tale of unspeakable things. It would have required no more than a leader with a loud voice to mobilize a mob of farmers who would have invaded the hills with pitchforks and shotguns to wipe out the Strange People entirely.

They did not fear the Strangers as witches, but as human beings. They feared them as possible kid¬ napers of children to be killed in the inhuman orgies the fire-ceremony had become in the telling. They had no evidence of such crimes com¬ mitted by the Strangers. But there is no evidence of kidnaping against the gipsies, yet many people suspect them of the same crime. Had any man spoken the truth about the Strangers, he would have been sus¬ pected of horrible designs—of being in sympathy with them. And be¬ cause of the totally false tales that sprang up like. magic about their name, to be suspected of sympathy with the Strangers was to court death.

Cunningham’s rage grew. Gray shrugged and rode furiously to Bendale to send more telegrams. Vladi¬ mir went about softly, purring to himself, and passed out bribes lav¬ ishly to those who could be bribed, and told lies to those who preferred to be suborned in that way.

He was holding back the plans of mobbing. The sheriff, acting on his orders, broke up every group of Avild-talking men as soon as it formed. But Vladimir held the Strange People in the hollow of his palm. Half a dozen murmured words, and the men who had taken his lavished money would stand aside and let the simmering terror of the countryside burst out into the frenzy of a mob. And then the hills would be invaded by Christian men who would ferret out the Strangers and kill them one by one in the firm belief that they were exterminating the agents of Satan and the killers of innumerable children.

It did not matter that Vladimir’s hold was based on lies. The lies were much more exciting than the truth. The truth was dull and bare. The Strangers had been dancing about the fires. The constables had rushed out and they had fled, withTHE STRANGE PEOPLE


out attempting to resist or harm their attackers. One of them had stabbed himself when caught. And the truth was mysterious enough, and inexplicable enough, but it did not compare with the highly colored tales of human sacrifice and heathen orgies that had been embroidered upon the original tale.

C unningham was inevitably in the thick of all these rumors. Men came rushing with news. A Stran¬ ger had been seen lurking about where children were playing. Ho was instantly suspected of planning to kidnap one of them. He had been shot at and now was being chased by dogs. A Stranger had stopped a doctor in the road and asked for bandaging for an injured arm. He had been shot by one of the con¬ stables the night before. Other Strangers guarded him lest the doc¬ tor try to arrest him while he dressed the wound.

That was in the morning. As the day went on the reports became more horrible. It became clear that if any Stranger showed his face he would be shot at as if he were a mad dog.

Word came from one place. Two Strangers had been seen and fired on. They vanished, leaving a trail of blood. From another place came another report. An old Strange woman had come out of the hills, to beg for medicines for their wounded. Dogs were set on her as she screamed her errand. She fled, and knives came hurtling from the brushwood, killing or wounding the dogs that were in pursuit.

Gray had promised much. 'With a drawn and anxious face he had told Cunningham that this day help must come. His telegrams must have produced results. They must have had some effect! He had long since dropped his pretense that his only mission in the hills was the study of the Strange People’s dialect. He

was off in Bendale, struggling with a telephone, pleading with a long¬ distance operator to give him a con¬ nection to somewhere — anywhere outside.

Noon came and passed. The after¬ noon waned, with the inhabitants of the valley growing more and more hysterical in their hatred of the Strange People, and more and more detailed and convinced about the horrors they ascribed to them. The wholly imaginary menace of the Strangers was making it more and more difficult to prevent the forma¬ tion of a mob. Men raved, wanting to protect their children by wiping out the hill folk. Women grew hys¬ terical, demanding their annihila¬ tion.

Cunningham went to Vladimir. Vladimir blinked at him and licked his lips.

“Your servant is a prisoner among the Strange People,” said Cunning¬ ham, coldly. “I’m authorized to say he’ll be killed if a mob enters the hills. ’ ’

Vladimir smiled, and all his cruelty showed when he smiled.

* * How are you authorized to speak for them?”

“Let that go,” said Cunningham grimly. “He’s alive and safe, but he won’t be if that mob goes in. ’ ’

The sheriff came in hurriedly.

“Mr. Vladimir-” he began.

Cunningham cut into his report with some sharpness.

“Sheriff, the Strange People are holding Vladimir’s servant prisoner, as a hostage. They’ll kill him if you raid the hills again. ”

Vladimir laughed.

“He is vastly mistaken, sheriff. I had a servant here, it is true. But I sent him to Boston, on a mission. And I had word from him yesterday that he was quite safe and attending to my orders.”

He blinked at Cunningham and moved close to him.



“Fool,” he murmured gently, so that the sheriff could not hear, “do you think his life counts any more than yours?” «.

The sheriff glared at Cunningham balefully.

“Tryin’ to scare me, eh?” he rumbled. “I got enough on you to arrest you. You’re in thick with them Strangers, you are. I reckon jail’s the best place for you. You won’t get no chance to talk about bribes- there. ”

Cunningham felt himself growing white with fury. His threat to Vladi¬ mir had been a bluff, and Vladimir had shown complete indifference to the fate of the man he had sent to murder Cunningham. But there was one thing he would not be indiffer¬ ent to.

“You try to, arrest me,” he said softly to the sheriff, “and I’ll blow your head off. And as for you, Vladimir”—he made his tone as con¬ vincing as he could—‘ ‘ I just tell you that you’d better call that mob off or I’ll tell them who the Strangers are and where they came from!”

Vladimir’s eyes flamed close to madness, while his cheeks went ashen.

“So they told you!” lTe purred. “Sheriff, go to the door. I wish to speak to this man privately.”

The sheriff, rumbling, moved away.

“My friend,” murmured Vladi¬ mir softly, “now I shall have to kill you. Not myself, of course, because that would be illegal. And danger¬ ous. But I give you news. Today, while you and Gray were outside, a little note was tossed into your win¬ dow. I heard the breaking glass and found it. It was from a girl, who signed, ‘Maria.’ She said that she loved you and would wait for you at a certain spot to flee with you.”

Cunningham’s heart stopped. Vladimir laughed at his expression.

“Oh, she was met,” murmured Vladimir. “She was met—and ar¬

rested. She is held fast. And to¬ night a story will go about and the women of the neighborhood will learn where she is. She is in the hotel here, safely bound. With such a tale as will be spread about, do you not think the women will pull down the whole hotel to tear her in bits? Now do you go and tell the secret of the Strangers! No one will believe you. But you believe me!”

He tossed a scrap of paper to Cun¬ ningham. And Cunningham knew that the story was true.

“Now,” said Vladimir, purring, “I shall give orders that you bo arrested. If yo.u are taken, she will be tom to bits. And that is how I kill you, my friend. That is how I kill you! For I do not want anyone to live who will remember or believe the secret of the Strangers.”


T hen the news took a definitely dangerous turn. A farmer who was hastening to Coulters was stopped by a band of Strangers. They had taken his shotgun and shells from him, contemptuously tossing him half a dozen of the square lumps of gold. Tljie gold would pay for the gun ten times over, but men raged. Another man came in foaming at the mouth, with a similar tale. He had seen a Stran¬ ger and raised his gun to fire as at a wild beast. A knife had flicked at him and gone through the fleshy part of his arm. They tools his gun and shells, leaving gold to pay for them.

No one saw anything odd in firing on the Strangers at sight. But everyone grew hysterically excited at the thought of the Strangers tak¬ ing guns with which to shoot back. Then a man rode up on a lathered horse, shouting hoarsely that twenty Strangers had raided a country store some six miles away. They had ap¬ peared suddenly. When they left

THE STRANGE PEOPLE


they took half a dozen shotguns— the whole stock—three rifles, and all the ammunition in the store. They left gold to pay for the lot.

Cunningham heard all this as one would hear outside sounds dur¬ ing a nightmare. He was like a madman. He would have gone rush¬ ing through the place in search of Maria but that it was still broad daylight and there were twenty or more armed men in the place, all mad with excitement and fury. As it was, Cunningham was in a cold, clear-headed rage. He went to his own room and packed his pockets with cartridges.

Vladimir was right in one respect. The natives were in no mood to listen to the truth. They would be¬ lieve nothing that he told them. He was suspect, in any event. They classed him with the. Strangers, and they classed the Strangers with the beasts. Fighting such men was not fighting law and order. The sheriff was bribed. The rest were wild with rage and terror. They did not know they were catspaws for Vladimir. Even the sheriff probably knew but little of Vladimir's plans.

He went into Gray’s room and searched for a possible second re¬ volver. As he pawed grimly among Gray’s possessions he heard the sher¬ iff speaking, through a partition. Gray’s room was next to that occu¬ pied by Vladimir, and Cunningham abruptly realized how Gray had obtained much information.

“I’m doin’ my best to hold ’em,” the sheriff was saying anxiously, “but it’s gettin’ to be a tough job. I’d better send for militia-”

“Fool!’’snarledVladimir. “What do I give you money for? There will be no fighting! We will march into the hills. We will pen up these folk—surround them. If your mob kills a few, what harm? Afterward you shall pick out your murderers —as many as you choose! They will confess to anything you choose,

after I have spoken to them. And then the rest of the Strangers will move away. They will go away forever, with me! I will take them! ’ ’

“But it looks bad-”

‘ ‘ They will lick my boots, ’ ’ rasped Vladimir. “They will crawl upon their knees and beg me for mercy. And I will give you four men to hang. They will confess to their crime. And I will take the rest away. ’ ’ Cunningham nodded grimly. At least this clarified the situation a little. Vladimir was afraid of the Strangers’ secret becoming known. He only wanted to get them away. If he could find Maria and she would tell him, and Gray brought the help

he had promisedCunningham was not thinking for himself, except as his liberty meant safety for Maria, and secondarily for the Strange People. But he would have to go into every room in the hotel filled with armed and sus¬ picious men. It was lucky he had two guns. There would surely be shooting. There would probably be a bullet or two for him.

“Now send your deputies to ar¬ rest Cunningham,” snapped Vladi¬ mir on the other side of the wall. “Tell them to shoot him if he re¬ sists. He was teaching the Stran¬ gers to shoot and advising them to resist arrest. That is enough.”

“I’ll send a bunch,” whined the sheriff uneasily. “He’s a desp’rit character. Talkin’ about accusin’ me of takin’ bribes. ...”

“You’ll be rich for life when this is over,” Vladimir purred. “-Re¬ member that! ’ ’

T he door closed behind the sher¬ iff. Cunningham grinned sav¬ agely. He was to have no chance at all. They had been sent to arrest him, after Vladimir had given him news that would ensure his resist¬ ing. He would resist, right enough! And then a wild and utterly reckless



scheme sprang full-bodied into Cun¬ ningham ’s head.

He swung the door to—and heard a squeaking on the other side of the partition as if a closet door had been opened. And then Vladimir spoke purringly in that unknown language of the Strangers!

There could be but one person to whom he would be speaking at such a time and in that language. Cun¬ ningham’s heart leaped violently. He heard voices downstairs—men coming up to arrest him in his own room.

He darted out in the hall and plunged into Vladimir’s room, a ready revolver upraised. Vladimir whirled and stared into its muzzle with ashen cheeks. For once there was no purred jibe upon his lips, be¬ cause Cunningham’s face was the face of a killer after he had seen Maria in the clothes-closet, bound hand and foot and with a gag in her mouth. She had been staring at Vladimir in horror, but her eyes flamed at sight of Cunningham.

For thq fraction of a second they gazed at each other. Then her eyes signaled frantic warning. Cunning¬ ham whirled and dashed his revolver blindly in Vladimir’s face as his hand came up with an automatic. Vladimir stumbled and crashed backward to the floor.

Footsteps crashed on the steps outside. Nearly all the men in the hotel, it seemed, were coming up in a body to see to the arrest of Cun¬ ningham. But he paid no attention. He was ripping away at the gag and tearing loose the bonds that held Maria fast.

“Vladimir told me you’d been captured,’’ he panted, “and said you’d be mobbed tonight. Now he’s sent a gang to arrest me, knowing I’d resist and get myself killed. We’ve got to make a break for it All right?”

Maria’s eyes were like stars. Cun¬ ningham kissed her suddenly.

“My God!” he laughed shakily. ‘ ‘ One can think of love-making even at a time like this! Listen! ”

The crowd on the stairs had reached the top. They crowded down the hall before Cunningham’s own door. There they hesitated, shuffling uneasily. At last a voice called loudly, ‘ ‘ Open in the name of the law!”

There was no answer from Cun¬ ningham’s empty room. They waited breathlessly. A man pounded cau¬ tiously on the panel of the door.

“Open inth’ name of th’ law!”

Still silence.

“M-maybe he j-jumped outer th’ window,” suggested someone un¬ easily.

“R-rush him,” urged a man safe¬ ly in the rear.

Cunningham and Maria, two rooms away, heard a hand laid on the other room’s door. They heard it fling open with a crash and the scuttling of feet as the mob of hastily deputized men jumped to one side to be out of the way of possible bullets. Dead silence greeted them. And suddenly they crowded into the deserted place.

“Now!” said Cunningham sharply.

He darted out, Maria running with him. She fled to the stairs and down them, Cunningham two steps in the rear. A single straggler of the men who were to have arrested him remained in the hall. He turned his head stupidly at sound of their rush. His mouth dropped open, but • before his shout they were half-way to the ground floor.

Cunningham stopped at the foot of the stairs to fire three times up at the ceiling of the second floor. A cloud of smoke filled the hall, and heads that had craned over the balustrade withdrew, in a panic. A dozen paces more and the fugitives were out in the roadway. Half a dozen horses were tethered there and Cunningham tore loose the reins and

THE STRANGE PEOPLE


leaped on one. Maria sprang up lightly behind him and he kicked the animal madly with his heels. It sprang into a panic-stricken gallop and was off down the road.

They were nearly out of sight be fore the first of their pursuers had run out into the road behind them. Then half a dozen puffs of smoke showed that.they were fired on, but an instant later they were out of sight around a bend in the road.


C unningham laughed a little as the horse's hoofs clattered be¬ neath and the white road shot past. Maria was clinging to his shoulders.

“Safe so far,” he told her, “but now we have to take to the woods. The hand of every man is against us, Maria. Do you trust me to get you away?”

“Anywhere,” she said softly. “You know I do.”

A motorcar eame racing toward them over the rough road. It was not fit going for an automobile and the car swayed and lurched from side to side with dangerous aban¬ don. Cunningham swerved his horse out of the road. The car slowed and stopped with a screaming of brakes. Cunningham's hand fell to his weapon.

Gray tumbled out of the cloud of dust that enveloped the inaehine.

“Cunningham,” he panted. “Just found—Vladimir had bribed the tele¬ graph operator. None of my wires got through. Found an amateur radio fan and he sent my message. Relay League. Help’s coming. By airplane. Bendale is a town of luna¬ tics. Wild yarns have gone into it and a mob is coming out to wipe out the Strangers. They think they’ve been burning children. You ’ve got to get up to the Strangers. Tell ’em about planes. Tell them to get going and Keep moving or there ’ll be a mas¬ sacre. Help’s coming as fast as it

can get here. But for God’s sake keep them away from the mob. They ’ll be wiped out! ’ ’

“I’m going to get Maria away,” said Cunningham defiantly. “I’m going to get her out of this state and marry her. The Strangers and anybody else can go to the devil! ’ ’

Gray, choking upon the dust he had swallowed, gasped out a raging order.

“Don’t be a fool!” he cried. “Look at her clothes! She’s in the Strangers’ costume! You’ll be spot¬ ted if you’re seen, and three town¬ ships are raving crazy! A dog couldn’t get away from here like that! You’ll be shot at by every damned fool in three counties and arrested anywhere else you go! Get up in the hills and keep the Stran¬ gers moving! The planes may not get here until dark, and they can’t land in the hills in the darkness. I’m going to meet them at Hatton Junction and guide them here. You get up in the hills and keep the Strangers moving or there’ll be a massacre! That mob will even wipe out the children! Everybody’s crazy! You’ve got to save them, Cunningham! Yoil’ve got to! ”

And Cunningham knew that he was telling the truth. The Strange People might not fight, if he begged them not to. To desert them would mean a tragedy in the hills. The people about them were no more accountable than so many lunatics. But to ride among the Strange Peo¬ ple with Maria upon his saddle! . . . They would know that she loved him, and they would believe that she had told him their secret. They would never let him leave the hills again alive.

It was death either way, and prob¬ ably for them both. He looked at Maria and found her eyes misty with tears.

“Let me go,” she said suddenly, with a sob in her throat. “You go away. I will go up to my people



and tell them what this man has said. Without me, you can escape. My people will tell me to die, but, you will not know who we are and you will never hate me or despise me. ...”

Cunningham caught her hand and laughed shortly.

“No, my dear,” he said grimly. “We won’t be separated. It's a choice between being shot like mad dogs or faeing your people. We’ll ride up into the hills. We’ll tell your people that help is coming to hold off the mob. Their lives will be safe and their secret too, for all of me. And if we die, it will be decent¬ ly. I’ve two guns for the pair of us.”

He found himself laughing as he waved his hand at Gray and drove his horse at the steep slopes that led upward to the tree-clad heights in which the Strangers lurked.

As the trees closed over their heads he smiled again and swung Maria before him. He gave the horse its head and the animal dropped to a plodding walk. And ■they talked softly. They had but a little while to. be alone and they had never talked the tender foolishness that lovers know. Now they were riding at a snail’s pace upward to the stern vengeance of the Strangers upon a woman of their number who had loved outside the clan.

They spoke in whispers, not to avoid detection but because there are some things that are too tender to be spoken aloud. And their eyes spoke other things for which nobody has ever found words. Maria’s arm was about Cunningham’s neck and her lips were never far from his own

and it seemed as if all trouble and care were very far away, though they were riding up to death.

The trees rustled above them. Birds sang all about them. And they rode through an age-old forest upon a weary horse, a scarecrow of a man with a bandaged shoulder and a girl in barbaric finery, gazing at him with tear-misted eyes. And as they rode they talked softly, and now and then they smiled, and in every speech and glance and gesture there was an aching happiness and *a wistful regret.

All this was very foolish, but it was the proper, and authentic con¬ clusion for a man who has followed the route to romance and adventure to its appointed ending.

But there came a little rustling in the undergrowth beside them as they went on climbing up to the heights. Then other rustlings. Far away there was a whistle as if someone signaled. And very suddenly an arm reached out from the thick brush¬ wood and seized the horse’s bridle. One of the Strangers stepped into view and gazed steadily up into the muzzle of Cunningham’s revolver.

From all about them men mate¬ rialized as if by magic. No man laid a hand on any weapon. They looked at the pair upon the horse gravely, without rancor but with infinite reso¬ lution.

And Stephan, Maria’s father, came into view and regarded them with weary, hopeless eyes.

“Why did you come back?” he asked in a queer and resolute despair. “You knew what we would have to do. Why did you come back?”

The dramatic revelation of who the Strangers are and the hideous secret they have guarded with their lives will be narrated in the exciting chapters that bring this story to a conclusion in next month's issue.

I N DEFIANCE of fashion and her husband, Marian Bardwell nursed the yard-long, tropical luxuriance of her blue-black hair, stedfastly refusing to have it bobbed. No coiffeuse ever profaned its twin¬ ing, serpentine profusion; no hands but her own were equal to the ritual of the 4 o’clock brushing that Marian performed with the dreamy-eyed rev¬ erence of a devotee who with mystic, ceremonious pass and gesture invokes the deity of some dusty shrine.

Before the dressing-table of her boudoir she sat, confronted by boxes of powders, pots of rouge, lotions and rarely blended essences; but these she ignored, having selected from.a bewildering assortment of brushes her favorite, amber-handled, amberbacked, and cunningly carved in the

nude, gracious curves of a Medusa whose serpentine tresses crept about and enclosed the oval that the Gor¬ gon’s upraised, slender arms sup¬ ported.

Bardwell entered through the door connecting his room with Marian’s.

“At it again! That damned hair!”

Bardwell shrugged his shoulders, grimaced at the thought of his wife’s oblivion to his presence, then with an effort erased the somber frown that lined his lean, handsome features. He turned as if to leave, but paused, fascinated by that ceremonial brush¬ ing. The lustrous amber disk and its golden bristles gleamed and stirred like a gigantic beetle as she moved it slowly through the abysmal darkness of her hair. Her movements were rhythmic, supple, richly rounded; in



some unbelievable way her arm glided in a series of convolutions whose sin¬ ister grace made Bardwell shudder.

“That damned hair!” he repeated as he wrenched himself from the fas¬ cination of the ritual. And then: “Why don’t you cut out all this non¬ sense and be human ? Have your hair bobbed, buy up a bunch of new clothes, and we’ll take a second hon¬ eymoon in Florida next month. We can afford it now, you know. And ... we both need a change of scene,” concluded Bardwell irrelev¬ antly, knowing well that no change of scene could ever veil the aura of age-old eVil that clung to the serpen¬ tine blackness of Marian’s hair.

The chilly, repellent opulence of that somberly gleaming, iridescent coiffure haunted Bardwell, distract¬ ing his hours of waking and making his sleep a confusion of reptilian nightmares. The living, creeping coldness of those profuse tresses had in four years frozen an indefinable terror into his soul. An age-old horror nightly twined itself on Marian’s pillow, separating them as might a limitless expanse of steaming, evil-haunted jungle.

“I’ll never cut my hair,” declared Marian with the passionless certitude of one pronouncing a law of nature. “Never again mention such a thing! ”

Then she set aside her mirror and, after a final lingering reverent ca¬ ress with the Medusa-handled brush, turned in her low chair to face Bard¬ well.

“Win, can’t you take me as I am and be content to leave me as I am? You knew when you married me that there was something strange about me. I loved you, Win. Still do. Always shall. But I can’t-”

“But you must!” flared Bardwell.

“No, I can not. Please don’t be unkind to me,” she pleaded. “All my life I’ye been different from other women. I worried my mother into her grave-”

“And now I’m in line,” despaired Bardwell. “Marian-”

But even as she spoke, the anima¬ tion faded from the exquisite oval of her face; she picked up the amber brush and again languidly stroked the coiling darkness that hung heav¬ ily on her white shoulders, spelling the wordless syllable of an everlast¬ ing prayer to the deity Bardwell hated and— feared.

“We’ll take a second honeymoon in Florida,” he had said. But he knew that it was no honeymoon but rather the fantastic hope that the warmth and unfailing sunlight of Florida might sear to extinction the living, chilly blackness before whose shrine Marian worshiped with meas¬ ured, languid passes of an amber brush.

Drawn by a compelling sorcery, at¬ tracted in spite of himself, Bardwell drew closer, catching the sound of the brush that caressed Marian’s waistlong hair, strands that blended and writhed, curled and intertwined in¬ dependently of the golden bristles. He gently laid his fingers on a strand, hoping against hope . . . shivered . . . muttered . . . then turned and strode from the room.

Marian’s movements became-slow¬ er, more and more torpid, more lan¬ guid, until finally, succumbing to the tropical, overheated atmosphere of her Riverside Drive boudoir, she care¬ fully placed the amber brush on the table and, mustering her ebbing vi¬ tality, picked her way to bed.

The black, tentacular strands dis¬ posed themselves about the pillow, dark serpents basking on silver-white sand. . . .


S arasota, rather than glittering Mi¬ ami or Palm Beach, appealed to Bardwell as being the most suitable field on which to make his final play against that which hung over him like the mantle of an oppressive doom.

MEDUSA


And there he sought to inveigle Mar¬ ian into play and festivity, to entice her from the somnolent ritual of ever¬ lasting hair-combing, to revive the gayety of their earlier days. He suc¬ ceeded, for a few days; but on the first morning of the second week he found Marian before her mirror, am¬ ber Medusa in hand, and lost in the impenetrable sorcery that had made his life a vortex of madness.

Thajt same afternoon found her asleep at the edge of a steaming la¬ goon, her hair spread fanwise about her, basking in that fierce damp heat.

“Now, by the Lord, this is too much!” he snarled, as he seized her by the hand, thrust her into their car, and carried her, still dazed and half asleep, back to their hotel. Once in the privacy of their suite, he con¬ tinued, “This damned nonsense must stop! And I ’ll stop it, here and now! ’ ’

Bardwell seized a pair of scissors and, stifling his repugnance, grasped a handful of that serpentine, black hair. And then he dropped the gleaming steel, recoiling before the chilly flame that came to life in Marian’s smoldering eyes.

“Win Bardwell,” she began in a calm voice whose deadliness matched the light in her eyes, “this is going too far. Whatever else you may wish to do, at least stop short of mutilating me and killing yourself.”

“What?” demanded Bardwell. “Mutilate you? Kill myself—good Lord, Marian, this is getting worse every day! What’s going to become of us?”

The venom faded from her voice, and the fire from her eyes, as she re¬ plied: “Win, I’ve told you a thou¬ sand times I can’t help being what I am. Can’t you remember the old days when my strange ways didn’t annoy you?”

And Bardwell recalled the first weeks of their marriage—mad, ecstat¬ ic nights and dream-filled days. The chill contact of Marian’s hair, even then, had carried the faint suggestion

of some ancient evil that always blended in their love-making, addingpiquancy to Bardwell’s pleasure, sug¬ gesting to him that he had found Eve and Lilith in one person. He had loved the dank chill of her hair, cold strands that burned like creeping, living fire; and a curious, pagan fas¬ cination lay in that queer gesture, so like an archaic, dimly remembered ritual, with which Marian would toss the great braids about her back and shoulders, where they clung and twined. . . .

“Win,” continued Marian, “have you changed, or have I? Leave me if you wish. You needn’t stay. I’l! play fair with you if you wish to leave me. Only ... promise me you’ll never again attempt to cut my hair. Promise me, and I’ll forgive you. And if you can ... try to re¬ member. ’ ’

Bardwell remembered, and prom¬ ised. And that night, and many nights thereafter, Bardwell held stony-eyed communion with bottles branded with three stars and marked with the name of Martel.

Yet hope was not entirely gone: for Bardwell would occasionally vary his routine, emerge from the haze, and in the calmness of evening seek anew the means of overcoming that which oppressed him. And thus it was that wandering at random he met old Dr. Berg, who during the many years previous to his retirement from ac¬ tive practise had attended Marian and Marian’s parents.

“Dr. Berg! Strike me blind, but it is good to see you! ’ ’

In the pleasure of this unexpected encounter, Win Bardwell for the mo¬ ment forgot that which the undying sun of Florida had not eradicated.

“And just as good to see you, Win. What in the world brings you to Sarasota?”

The doctor paused, hesitating to inquire as to Bardwell’s wife, yet knowing that such inquiry must be



forthcoming from him. Bardwell’s next remark bridged the gap.

“I know you’ve retired, Doctor,” he began, “but I want to have a word with you. In private. And at once, if you’re not engaged.”

Dr. Berg nodded acquiescence. A cab carried them to the doctor’s apartment.

“Either I'm utterly loco,” de¬ clared Bardwell, “or else-”

“No, lad,” interrupted the whitehaired medico, “you’re not loco. It killed her mother; and It has made me wonder, and pass quite beyond the borders of reason and science. In a word, Win, it’s that deadly poison coldness of Marian’s hair. ...”

The doctor shivered.

“Yes,” agreed Bardwell. “It’s driving me nutty. She won’t have it cut. She spends hours brushing it. Like some fakir sitting before a heathen god and thinking himself into the silence. Lord in heaven, but I often wonder if she’s human! The touch of a single strand of it drives me wild. And at the same time, I think the world of her. That’s the worst of it I”

npHE old doctor poured a slug of Bacardi. Bardwell swallowed the amber flame and continued, “Either I’m absolutely bughouse, or some¬ thing is totally wrong with Marian. One of us should be sewed up in a sack and dropped into the Gulf. If she’s okay, then I’m due for a padded cell; or if I’m right, then that girl is a monstrosity ... oh, hell! What do you make of it, Doc?”

“I make exactly nothing of it,” re¬ plied Dr. Berg. “Nothing that any sane man of science could accept. Her parents told me a similar story, when she was about six years old— told me of the ghastly, snaky cold¬ ness and clamminess of Marian’s heavy hair. I laughed and called it nerves. But when I touched the kid’s unusually long hair, I nearly passed out, used as I was to grotesque and

repellent deformities. It was as though I had thrust my hand into a nest of serpents all clinging together for warmth.”

Bardwell lifted his face from his hands.

“This madness has to stop. I’ll clip that poisonous jungle she nurses day and night. Promised her I wouldn’t, but promises be damned!”

“No, Win, don’t do that. Her mother tried it, once.. Leave-her if you can’t stand it any longer. But don’t kill her. Or yourself-”

“What? You, too? What in thunder do you mean—kill her, or my self?” demanded Bardwell, recover¬ ing himself, and drawing animation from the incredible words the doctor had just spoken in paraphrase of Marian’s outlandish speech. “Are you as nutty as she is, and I shall be ? For God’s sake-”

“Steady, lad. She isn’t, and I’m not, and you’re not, yet. Lis¬ ten. . . .”

The doctor drew from his desk a leather-bound, loose-leaf notebook, turned a few pages, remarking as he did so, “Heredity is a curious thing. Marian’s outlandish hair inspired me to study the matter in general and in particular. I’ve never dared publish my thoughts and findings. Like Rabelais, I prefer to die before I am cremated. But I’ll tell you as much as I can. It may help you. For we lose fear of that which we under¬ stand, even if but partly.”

The doctor paused; pinched the end from a long black cigar; sought, found, but forgot to strike his match. And then he read, intoning solemnly, like a judge pronouncing sentence.

“Atavism is an outcropping of tendencies and characteristics that have skipped two generations or more. Such outcroppings are rare enough, though usually not startling. But what of tendencies that have lain dor¬ mant, skipping thousands of genera¬ tions, reappearing only after hun¬ dreds of centuries of extinction ?

MEDUSA


“Your wife, Win. . . . For twenty years I’ve studied this matter, ever since at her mother’s insistence I touched that living, snaky hair. ’ ’

“For God’s sake, Doctor, what do you mean?”

“Just what I said. One thing at a time. You’ll finally grasp what you’re up against.”

The doctor struck his match, touched light to the lean, dark cigar, then continued: “You’ve played polo, and witnessed many polo matches. Remember Captain Erich von Ostenburg?”

“Yes. Fierce, heathen sort of fel¬ low. Wonderful player. But what the devil-?”

“One thing at a time, Win. Have patience and let me put it across bit by bit, groping with you even as I myself have groped in the dark. He resembles not one of his relatives, dis¬ tant or near; nor does he resemble any one of his ancestors for ten gen¬ erations back, if the private rogues’ gallery, as he calls the family por¬ traits, means anything at all. That fellow is a Tartar, pure and simple; a throw-back to some obscure ancestor who rode in the trace of Genghis Khan. Look at him; look at those eyes, those cheek-bones, the contour of his skull, and see the stamp of the Mongol. Look at the way he sits his horse, crouched like some squat demon riding into battle. He might be the Grand Khan himself. That is atavism, but on a small scale. Merely a dozen odd generations. ’ ’

Bardwell was too much puzzled to interrupt.

“Some Tartar of the hordes of Genghis Khan grafted himself onto the family tree of the house of Osten¬ burg. And now, centuries later, we have Captain Erich. But this,” re¬ peated the doctor, “is atavism on a small scale. Listen again: ’ ’

And from his notes the doctor read, “It was Herbert Spencer, greatest of all rationalists, who pointed out that there is a foundation of fact for every

legend and superstition of mankind. Was there then a race, back in the mists that shroud the emergence of humanity from prehistoric reptilian slime, whose physical attributes sup¬ plied the fact basis for the Medusa myth, the legend of the Gorgons?”

Bardwell stared, blinked, won¬ dered whether or not lie had heard aright the madness which dripped from the white-mustaehed lips of the old doctor. Then Bardwell remem¬ bered all too well the serpentine, clinging coldness of Marian’s hair and knew that he had indeed married a Medusa whose type for a thousand centuries had been, and would today, but for some ghastly jest of nature, be extinct.


T'Aay after day the amber brush with its carved Medusa flick¬ ered like some monstrous golden beetle as Marian, secure in the shelter of Bardwell’s promise, devoted more and more of her time to the now endless caressing of the coiling, midnight madness that crowned her pallid features, enshrouded her shoul¬ ders, and reached almost to her knees.

Small, swift boats brought Bard¬ well solace from Bimini: Martel, and Bacardi, and the deadly, pale green Pernod — wormwood distilled with madness. Substitution: serpents for -serpents. And through the haze gleamed a pair of long-bladed coupon shears. Martel and Pernod and prom¬ ises mingle curiously.

Dr. Berg watched from a distance, resigned himself to the futility of further effort, and confined his pity to a slow, sorrowful shake of his white head. His words were unvary¬ ing : ‘ ‘ Don’t attempt to cut her hair. Her mother tried it, once. . . . Grin and bear it, or else leave her. But forget those scissors, and remember your promise. . . .”

Martel and Pernod and promises mingle curiously. Yet through it all



persisted the memory of ancient days, of mad, ecstatic nights and dreamfilled days, and of a lovely, pallid girl whose great dark braids of hair clung and twined about his shoulders, adding piquancy to his pleasure; so that one night Bardwell, deciding that while he could not grin, he might at least bear it, thrust aside the pale green madness that turned milky white as the melting ice diluted it, and sought Marian’s boudoir.

A shaft of moonlight filtered in through the thinly draped French window and enriched the pale fea¬ tures and argentine shoulders of his sleeping wife. Her long hair som¬ berly enshrouded the loveliness of her face and spread fanwise across both pillows. A faint, acrid odor mingled itself with the perfume of the sleeping Madonna; and apart from, but somehow a part of her even breathing, came the vague sound of things that crept not quite noiselessly, and their sibilant hissing.

As Bardwell stared fixedly, the sable strands moved, stirred, animat¬ ed by an independent life: black ser¬ pents awakening from their slumber on silver-white sands. For the first time he saiv that which he had suspected, and feared.

From the pocket of his brocaded -lounge robe he drew the final solu¬ tion, the companion of endless nights of grief: a pair of long-bladed coupon shears.


“ Tust across the hall from 614?

«l Yes, sir, I’ll look into it right away, ’ ’ replied the night clerk. And then, slamming the receiver, he ad¬ dressed the house detective: “Daw¬ son, for the love of Mike see who’s got the heebie-jeebies in 640. ’ ’

Whereat the night clerk yawned and prepared to resume his nap while awaiting Dawson’s report as to the

cause of that prolonged scream of anguish, the voice of a man and wo¬ man mingled in an awful cry of horror and despair, the ghastly dis¬ turbance whereof the guest in 614 had complained.

But that nap was interrupted ere it was resumed.

“ I ’ll be eternally damned! ’ ’ gasped the night clerk, paused a moment, then started in pursuit of the house detective who had in three bounds cleared the lobby and gained the street.

A patrolman on a beat several blocks from the hotel collared the frenzied man and clubbed him into a state of comparative calmness. In¬ vestigation verified the house detec¬ tive’s outrageous story, thus keeping him clear of a padded' cell; but in¬ vestigation came to a dead standstill when confronted by the scarlet, ex¬ coriated mask of what had once been Win Bardwell’s lean, handsome fea¬ tures, and the thousand tiny, livid punctures which had pierced the skin. Nor was it any easier to account for the monstrous black coil, wrist-thick, which encircled Bard well’s body, and stranglingly, closed about his throat: frosty cold, midnight black, irides¬ cent hair the like of which came from no man or beast . . . but which must have come from the head of the wom¬ an who lay dead on the bed beside Bardwell.

Dr. Berg saw, but wisely refrained from venturing an opinion. On re¬ turning to his apartment, he drew from his desk a loose-leaf, indexed notebook, turned to the page ending, “Was there a race in the mists that shroud the emergence of humanity from prehistoric, reptilian clime, whose physical attributes supplied the fact basis for the Medusa myth?”, and completed in a few words his commentary on atavism.

<c m yTA R Y Ellen,” asked KenjVl neth suddenly, “do you X▼ JL think Sheila is happy?”

A fitful wind drove sleet against the windows. A log in the grate fell apart. The clock chimed slowly six. It had been dark for nearly an hour, the early bitter darkness of December.

Mary Ellen made conprete the mis¬ givings he had not put into words.

“Of course, Kenneth, I think she would be happier if you didn’t seem to partly disapprove of her.”

“I disapprove of her imaginings. I want my girl to be just solid flesh and blood like me, with - five senses like mine—that I can believe in. Don’t you understand?”

“I see what you mean, but it’s you who do not understand. Sometimes, I think that I’m the only person who does understand her. When— it — happened, she talked to me.”

“Shft’s talked to you more than

she ever has to me, Mary Ellen,” Kenneth said unhappily. ‘ ‘ Won’t you tell me—everything there is to tell?”

Mary Ellen had been fidgeting be¬ fore the fire. She sank into the depths of a large armchair, so that her face was in shadow.

“The first was the sinking of the Lusitania. I was only eight. ”

“I know about the Lusitania. I know that Sheila dreamed of drown¬ ing, the night it sank. I think she sees that that is only a coincidence. Hun¬ dreds of people probably dream of drowning every night. ’ ’

If Kenneth’s tone was not sarcastic, it suggested that to disageee with him would invite at least a desire to be sarcastic. Mary Ellen flushed; but she was eager now to prove her point, and began again with added energy.

“It wasn’t a dream. Father and Mother have each a room, Sheila and I one together. Ours has a door into



Mother’s. That night I waked because the covers had been thrown back, and I was chilled. That wasn’t like Sheila, and she was gone. In a moment I heard her voice, in Mother’s room. She was younger then, about the age I am now, and she had gone to Mother because she was frightened. She was afraid of death—and of deep water. And she was wide awake.”

Mary Ellen paused, remembering.

“She said there were too many people dying in the night. And when Mother talked to her, thinking she meant the way people are always dy¬ ing everywhere, and said she mustn’t let the war excite her, and the stories of men in the trenches, she said—I remember the words she used—‘I don’t mean in the trenches, or in houses and hospitals. I mean under the stars, in the black, deep water. I can’t get them out of my mind.’ Then she said she couldn’t get air, she was smothering. After a while she was quiet, and Mother led her back to bed. The next day we read about the Lusitania.”

“Did she know anyone on board the Lusitaniaf'

“No. But I think her mind reached theirs—like a radio station taking an S. 0. S. I think that now. Why, everyone believes in telepathy, Ken!”

‘ ‘ I believe more in coincidence. ’ ’

“You still say that! Then listen. For I don’t believe you ever heard all about—when Vincent died.”

“I know she had—some sort of ‘visitation.’ I know she believes— used to believe—in such things.”

Mary Ellen’s voice fell almost to a whisper, although the dining-room still was dimly lit, and the kitchen door still closed.

‘ ‘ This was in the night, too. Sheila was twenty-one, and I was thirteen. We had gotten very close together then, and Sheila read me parts of Vincent’s letters. He was coming from India to marry her at Christmas time, but this was in the summer be¬ fore.”

Kenneth moved uneasily. When Sheila had been engaged to Vincent, she had been happier than she was now.

“I waked. Sheila was sitting up in bed, hardly breathing. She was lis¬ tening. I moved, and she spoke to me. Something was the matter with Vincent.”

“She had had a letter?”

“Oh, no. Just that moment, she knew. She had waked from a night¬ mare. In her dream, her side hurt her badly, and she was laid out on a flat-topped, wooden kitchen table. It was all so clear that she saw a gash in the table top, where a cookingknife had jabbed. The surgeon and his assistant with the anesthetic wore gauze masks, but the assistant was cross-eyed. He put a cone over her face, and she struggled and waked. But her first thought was not of her dream, but of Vincent. She knew that it had happened to Vincent, be¬ cause of that.”

“That was a queer transition.”

“Yes. You’d have thought she would wonder if she might be going to have appendicitis, or something like that, herself, wouldn’t you?”

“Most people would.”

“She still seemed to feel, or to ‘al¬ most feel,’ a sensation of cutting; far away, like a sound just before you can’t hear it at all. It didn’t take long to tell me that, and when she finished, she was shaking all over. ‘It’s going on and oh, a long way off. Out there in India. What I can’t understand, is— now, it isn't cutting, it's thudding. Heavy blows. It is horrible. My God! Doctors don’t

pound a patient_’ There was more.

About a man coming to with a deep, open wound in his side, and still the blows. ’ ’

The low voiee from the shadow of the big chair no longer sounded like Mary Ellen’s.

“Vincent—afterward we heard—”

“I know the rest.”

FROM BEYOND


Vincent, in India, had photo¬ graphed a sacred fountain. Very soon afterward he was taken with acute appendicitis. In the midst of a hurryup operation, angry natives had dragged away the doctor and his helper, and had stoned the uncon¬ scious man to death.

“But did you ever check up on the scarred table and the cross-eyed anesthetist?”

‘ ‘ Oh, Ken! A Psychic Research So¬ ciety would have done all that. We didn’t. Sheila couldn’t have stood any more. ’ ’

The smell of savory cooked things filled the air. The swing door had been blocked open; dinner was being set on the table. Mary Ellen got out of her chair and slipped away. A moment later, Sheila came and led Kenneth in to dinner.

A t the table, Mary Ellen looked like a younger reflection of Sheila. “That kid will be having visions next. But if it were a gift of vision, it would be a great thing—a really wonderful thing. If it were freely accepted, it wouldn’t be an unhappy thing. But I can’t see it like that— to me it isn’t a gift. It is only an abnormality. Hysteria at night; a co¬ incidence, and the two edges of it fitted more closely together after¬ ward; memories colored by a wild theory. Hysterical tendencies encour¬ aged, and more ‘visions’ and more coincidences. It is no gift to me. It seems to me-more like—insanity.”

Yes, that was his feeling. That was the word he had hidden in the back of his mind. The ugliest word in the world.

Talk flowed around Kenneth. Mary Ellen brightened and began to re¬ semble her mother instead of Sheila. Sheila herself was sensitive to Ken¬ neth’s mood. The shadow deepened in her eyes as she watched his face. Suddenly Kenneth knew that foxmonths it had been deepening when she looked at him. Was he beginning

to do her hax-m? A courage bom of something like despair rose in him. and his spirits rose with it. Sheila loved him. He would hold to his mat¬ ter-of-factness like a life-line, and to Sheila. He would dominate her, and save her from the things he feai-ed.

He dominated her now. After din¬ ner, he put on a l-ecord and made her dance. He told her jokes axxd made her laugh. There was a suppressed sparkle about her tliat made him long to see more of it, to see it released and often in play.

The telephone rang. Mrs. Michaels turned from it to her elder daughter.

“It’s your dress, Sheila. If you wear it tomorrow night, Mrs. Walton has to try it on this evening. ’ ’

“I didn’t know you had a new dress.” Kenneth’s eyes asked an in¬ terested question. “Flame chiffon?”

Sheila smiled, understanding him. “Flame!”

The word was a shout of triumph. The only evening dress he had seen Sheila wear was a misty, silver thing, like rain on a mountain top. All her clothes were somber-hued. Flame-col¬ ored chiffon was sunrise and victory. After all, perhaps nothing like what was past would ever enter into the future—his and Sheila’s future. And, some day, all that was past would be forgotten, and he would be sure in his heart that Sheila was—just a girl like other girls.

Sheila had gone to the telephone. “I guess I’ll have to waste an hour on it,” she said.

“I’m sorry. I thought it was all finished.”

Kenneth expected to go with her.

“I’d rather you didn’t,” die per¬ suaded him. “ It’s only 7:30, and I can take the car and be there in five min¬ utes. It embarrasses Mrs. Walton to have a ‘gentleman friend’ hanging around while she’s fitting. You did that once, and she made the hem crooked. The curtains between her two rooms don’t fit, and she has them



on her mind. So if you want this to hang, let me go alone. ’ ’

“I’ll take you and come back, and then go back again. Or wait in the car. Or, better—I need exercise. I’d rather walk it once, each way.”

“That’s silly, Ken. It’s a bad night to walk the streets. Let me drive over alone; you stay here, and I ’ll ’phone you in time to walk over, if you really want to walk it once, and ride back with me.”

It was settled. Sheila’s matter-offactness delighted Kenneth as much as the flame-colored dress. She had a competent, efficient way that was al¬ ways a source of delight to him:

And in a moment, suddenly, like the blowing of an unwholesome wind across the shining surface of a pool, everything was different.

“Ken—Ken—I’m not going ... I can’t go. I’m afraid.”

Only seconds had elapsed since her last words, but her voice was changed. Her eyes were wide, unhappy, and— yes—terrified. Kenneth had been in the act of helping her with her coat. She leaned slightly against him, her eyes, with that strange look in them', near his own. They held his, desper¬ ately, appealingly. Kenneth tried to hide his recoil from her manner.

“I’ll go with you.”

He had not concealed his feeling. Moreover, it was deepening. He was conscious of something like irritation also, an irritation that was growing. Everything had been all right. There was no reason for Sheila suddenly to alter, to look at him like a stricken animal, bound and helpless and wait¬ ing for an expected blow to fall. Whatever the cause of this attack, Sheila had not tried to control her¬ self. She had yielded to a fantastic mood, and had expected Kenneth to yield.

Sheila’s eyes became more stricken as she watched him.

“You needn’t look like that, Ken. I’m going.”

Kenneth weighed his words careful¬

ly. “I don’t think the road is too slippery. Both you and I have driven hundreds of miles in the rain, at night, too. The sleet turned to rain an hour ago. But if you’re afraid to drive-”

“I’m never afraid to drive. It wasn’t that. It was—it is—oh, never mind, now. I am ready.”

“Moods are to be reckoned with,” said Kenneth gently. “Of course, it’s better not to give in to them unless you have to. But—are your nerves steady enough to drive?”

“I’m not nervous. I wasn’t nerv¬ ous. You’d never understand. For¬ get it, Ken. I’m going. Only, don’t ever look at me as you did a minute ago. I—didn’t like it.”

They walked to the unlighted ga¬ rage in silence. Sheila climbed into the front seat of the touring-car. The motor started quickly, and Kenneth leaned over and kissed the girl lightly on the cheek.

“I’ll be ready when you ’phone,” he said. He slammed the door.

The big car moved out backward, closely shrouded in its black curtains, a shining black monster trailing glaring, parallel beams. It took the road, swung round and shot away, the bright lights leaping before it, its driver invisible in the gloomy cavern of the interior. Sheila was an expert driver, and misted glass and blurry celluloid never annoyed her seriously. But Kenneth’s straining eyes resented their inability to catch a last glimpse of her, and his over-strained nerves made of the trifle a grievance. For the first time in his life it seemed to him that there was something sinister about the appearance of a closely cur¬ tained car; something suggestive of a hearse, or of something hateful which he eould not name. He turned toward the house with a shiver of disgust at the idea.

I n the big chair by the fire Mary Ellen rocked silently. She would not look at Kenneth.

FROM BEYOND


Mr. and Mrs. Michaels were ill at ease. They had taken no hand in the incident, but they had been talking it over while Kenneth was out. After a little hesitation, Mrs. Michaels spoke to him.

“I think you did right, Kenneth. She’ll have to overcome those spells. It’s been a long time since I’ve seen her-”

The mother’s voice trailed into si¬ lence. The last time had been the time of Mary Ellen’s story. They were all thinking of that.

“If I had been you, Kenneth, she wouldn’t have gone without me, ’ ’ said Sheila’s father flatly.

“Please-” said Kenneth.

The clock ticked. The wind blew a branch outside the window so that it tapped against the glass. Again, Mary Ellen’s story lived in Kenneth’s ears. The tapping branch was like a signal, attracting his attention to some un¬ easy fact.

Sheila should have reached the Walton house. Just this side of it, vacant lots thff size of a eity block lay along each side of the road. Ken¬ neth pictured the shut-in ear passing this point with a recurrence of the shudder of distaste he had felt as he looked after the car. It was early, and the road would not be empty. Cars would be meeting each other and rushing by, each a cavern of darkness carrying its unseen occupants, its bright lights glaring ahead, twin meteors blazing a lonely trail.

Wolf, the collie, went to the door and whined—a long, heart-breaking whine that was almost a howl. Ken¬ neth opened the door for him, forcing himself to speak lightly.

“Sheila got us all nervous, and we’ve affected the dog.”

Fifteen minutes passed, slowly. If the telephone did not ring, he would have to call the Waltons’ house him¬ self. He gave it five more minutes. One—twoIt was still sounding in his ear when he caught the voice on the wire:

W. T—3

“Is this the Michaels’ residence? Is Miss Sheila there ? I thought she was coming here to have a fitting.”'

Visions of accident, of collision and side-swipes rushed through Kenneth’s mind. Yet these things did not wear the aspect of his fear. It had to do— he was sure—with the closed-in, prisoned look of the car as it had vanished in the night.

The lamp-lit room seemed changed. He thought swiftly. These people did not know that something had hap¬ pened to Sheila. Kenneth’s shoulders squared. He was responsible for whatever had happened. He would be responsible for more. He would not share his knowledge now, not until he had tried to make it more definite. Before he terrified Sheila’s father and mother, he would go over the road she should have gone. A stalled motor might have held her somewhere all this time. . . .

But his fear—his horror—why should he detest the idea of Sheila’s being alone in the close-eurtained ear? Was he subconsciously enter¬ taining a fantastic suspicion that she, in this evening’s mood, ought not be alone, shut from the eyes of others? That she needed protection from her¬ self, perhaps? Not that—it could not be that! But what nameless, shape¬ less dread was it that was assailing him in terms he eould not define? His doubts colored his fears.

Instinctively he had compressed his reply over the telephone. “In about twenty minutes, ’ ’ had meant to Mrs. Walton that he was bringing Sheila. “You’ll find me in bed if you come much later,” had meant to him that Mrs. Walton would not bother to call again.

He snatched his hat and overcoat, but dropped the overcoat at once in the darkness outside, and began to run, jamming his hat down to keep the stinging drizzle out of his eyes. He spared breath to call twiee to Wolf, but if the dog heard him he made no sign. He thought as he ran



that Mary Ellen and Wolf had both turned against him, and he did not blame them. He had turned against himself. He should have gone with her. In his uncertainty, he knew only that.

He ran until his breath came hard and the perspiration streamed down his body with the rain soaking through his clothes. He did not know how many minutes it was before he came to the lonely stretch of road he had been hurrying to reach. But there was nothing there to see. The road lay straight ahead, a shining canal reflecting the lights of two onrushing cars. Their headlights flared on him and vanished, and the dark¬ ness closed down like a falling cur¬ tain of wet, black velvet. The light in Mrs. Walton’s house was ahead, dim in the rain and mist. This outskirt of the city was as lonely as many spots ten miles from town.

Kenneth walked now, scanning the shadows to left and right. He passed the Walton house, although he knew that the reasonable thing was to go in there and telephone the Michaels the truth. He had passed no wrecked or stalled car. No car was parked here. Sheila would not have come and gone away without him. It was a case, now, for notifying the police.

And yet he walked on indecisively in the rain like a man possessed by an impulse stronger than himself, un¬ able to face the facts, unable to give up and admit that there was no longer a chance that suddenly he would find Sheila and everything would be all right. Also, he could not go in out of the night and put things into other, less eager hands. The idea was like the idea of a desertion. He was not through yet with the black, streaming road that led on past the house to¬ ward which Sheila had started.

He never before had gone past Mrs. Walton’s house. Beyond were lights in other houses, sparsely scattered. But before the first of these, a lane¬ like cinder road led off to the right.

And far away somewhere to the right, a dog, with a voice that reminded him of Wolf, gave a single distressed bark as he hesitated.

To get the general direction of this road and the lay of the land, or be¬ cause an impulse stronger than his uncertain will turned his footsteps, Kenneth splashed into the narrow channel of deeper darkness. The rain began to fall more heavily.

I t had poured for hours. The win¬ dows of the Michaels’ house shone like squares of yellow topaz under water. At 11 o’clock their brightness faded to a dusky play of firelight and shadow, slanted over by the pallid gleam from the nearest street lamp.

Mr. and Mrs. Michaels had talked over again the events of the evening in the last hour since Mary Ellen had gone to bed. Sheila must learn to control her moods. Yet Kenneth’s policy was questionable. And while no slightest uneasiness over their daughter’s whereabouts had touched her parents since tire telephone call they thought was from her, they had accused both her and Kenneth of thoughtlessness.

“They must have driven down¬ town. They wouldn’t stay at Mrs. Walton’s very long.”

‘ ‘ They probably got tickets and went to a show, and maybe they didn’t have much time to ’phone. They’re usually good about that. Sheila usually lets us know what she’s doing.”

“There’s no reason why she shouldn’t always let us know. It isn’t asking much, to want to know when to expect the children home.”

The curtained lights upstairs were darkened too, and blinds and» windows raised. With the unsatisfied feeling' that follows a spoiled evening, Sheila’s father and mother fell asleep.

npHE persistent, soaking rain diminashed at last. A dense white mist crept slowly out of lower-lying places,

PROM BEYOND


along sheltered slopes and behind hedges. It lay deep and heavy on the road.

In the silent house the clock struck twelve. As if at a signal, soft foot¬ steps crept down the stairs. Mary Ellen could stand her motionless vigil no longer. And in that moment a car glided up the hill.

Mary Ellen had pressed her face against the glass in the door. She Avould not have heard the car, for the motor made no sound. The wheels were shrouded in the creeping mist, so that the black car seemed floating upward on a cloudy stream. Drifting wisps of vapor undulated, snakelike, before the dimmed lights. Mary El¬ len bit her lip and shivered as the car turned slowly into the drive and stopped.

“Dead?”

She repeated the word softly, over and over, shivering more and more.

For Kenneth had gotten awkwardly out, holding in his arms a limp thing dressed in Sheila’s clothes. He was coming up the drive. His head was bent, but although his face was hid¬ den, despair spoke in every line of his body. Hair matted, tail, head and ears drooping, the collie slunk behind him. As they reached the porch, Mary Ellen heard a smothered whine.

“Dead!”

She did not realize that she had been repeating the word, that she spoke it now with a different intona¬ tion. But Kenneth’s voice answered her, low-toned and harsh.

‘ ‘ There’s death in the air tonight— but I haven’t given up. She was breathing when I started with her; afterward, I wasn’t sure. But I haven’t given up.”

There was no sound from above stairs. With one accord, Kenneth and Mary Ellen moved soundlessly. Ken¬ neth laid Sheila gently on the rug before the fire and knelt beside her. An ugly bruise darkened her temple; all the rest of her face was the color of marble. Her wrists were bruised.

‘‘Kenneth—I’ll bring some water.”

When Mary Ellen returned, Kenneth was rhythmically chafing Sheila’s hands. He took the water and wet her forehead, brushing the fine hair straight back in unaccus¬ tomed lines, so that the strangeness wdiich illness or death brings to a fa¬ miliar face became more marked. Mary Ellen sobbed. Kenneth was holding one wrist now, with a look of listening. He had done this at first. Mary Ellen knew that he was feeling for the pulse, and that he had not found it. A very faint pulse was hard to find, unless you were a doc¬ tor or a nurse. It might be only very hard to find—very hard to find.

“ I ’ll tell you what happened, Mary Ellen. And then—if she hasn’t come around—we’ll have to wake your father and mother, and—tell them. I’ve already ’phoned for a doctor. I did that on the way. He ought to be here very soon, but we’ll have to tell them first. I hoped—she would come to before we had to tell them.

“Anyhow, you knew there .was something wrong. We all knew it. But I was too big a fool to admit— until that telephone call. Sheila didn’t call; Mrs. Walton called, be¬ cause Sheila hadn’t come. Then I went wild. I felt that I must find her, that I must go directly to her, that no one else could find her in time. So when I went out, I ran over the road she should have gone.

“I had called Wolf, but he didn’t answer. So I went alone.

“I passed Mrs. Walton’s house, be¬ cause—I had to. There was a cinder road to the right. I went down it, because—I had to. When I hesitated, I heard a dog bark down that road— a dog with a voice like Wolf’s. But —I don’t think that decided me. I just had to go.

‘ ‘ I found the car half a mile down that road, where it was woodsy on both sides—tall trees, growing close. There wasn’t much noise for what was going on. Wolf and a man were



rolling in the road, and the man had Wolf by the throat—that was why there wasn’t more barking: Wolf was too busy trying to get loose, and to slash the man’s throat, for any bark¬ ing. I don’t know how it would have eome out. It was very dark. But when I came up, the man let go and got to his feet and ran—Wolf after him. I called Wolf off; I didn’t know. . . .

“There was Sheila, doubled up on the floor of the tonneau with that bruise in her temple, with her hands tied together with rope—oh, I can’t tell you! But there were little things fallen on the floor—things out of a man’s pockets, out of a dope-fiend’s pockets, Man* Ellen. And I knew the devil had been hiding there, crouched in the tonneau, when she started. When I made her go alone!

“Not that I would have been much protection. He had an iron bar—I think he used it on her. He could have laid me out, just as cold—who ever looks in the back of a car, at night?

“Oh, Sheila! Sheila!”

A s though his cry of despair had reached her, Sheila moved. Her eyelids fluttered, and her lips trem¬ bled, as at a grievous memory. Her eyes opened suddenly, wide, with a lost look in them. They found Ken¬ neth’s, and clung to them. A faint trace of color came back into the white face, as though in that long look she were drawing strength from him—from the steadiness of his eyes, and the love in them. And still she stared, unsatisfied, asking something without a word.

And Kenneth’s face slowly whit¬ ened until she had the more color of the two, and the relief went out of it, until it was set in anguish—more set and more hopeless than it had been when he brought her in and laid her down, and could not find her pulse.

He had thought that, if only she would open her eyes, the terrors of

the night would turn to blessed relief. And now he knew that the question¬ ings which had lain for so long be¬ tween them must be faced and an¬ swered. He had been overwhelmed with pity for Sheila, driven out by him to a horrible experience that might have ended for her in death— or worse.

But, did he believe that her fears of the early evening were in the na¬ ture of a presentiment ? That, in her danger, she—or something from that other world she believed in, veiled thinly from the world of the senses— had drawn him to her, and guided his feet down the narrow road?

Did he believe that she knew things from some source of knowledge that was closed to him, and to others ? Did lie believe that she had known of the sinking of the Lusitania when it hap¬ pened? Did he believe that her first sweetheart, Vincent, had been anes¬ thetized by a cross-eyed assistant on a wooden kitchen table, before the na¬ tives burst in and made an end ?

He did not believe any of those things. And he knew that Sheila be¬ lieved them, that she would always believe them, that things would al¬ ways be happening to her to confirm her in her belief—things that to him would be coincidences; strange, but nothing more than coincidences, be¬ cause they could not be proved any¬ thing else. Proof, proof! He eouid not believe things for which there was no proof, and, although he would never try again to bully Sheila into believing as he believed, she would see the doubts in his mind, and shrink from them. Only this evening he had feared that her mind—well, in the fu¬ ture, what might he fear, what might he think? And—Sheila would fear his thoughts.

Things of which they dared not speak, because they had no common language of shared experience, would invade their house of life, as tonight’s storm and darkness had forced their way into this sheltered room. And

FROM BEYOND


because they had no common lan¬ guage in which they might cry out to each other in their need, the walls of* their house would fall.

All the philosophy of his life Ken¬ neth would now have given gladly for one moment in which he and Sheila might see eye to eye. But he had no hope of such a moment, however fleet¬ ing. Reality to him was not a thing of feeling, but of fact.

Down the road there sounded an Automobile horn.

“The doctor—at last!”

But Sheila, holding on by his arm, raised herself suddenly to a sitting position.

“Then, I want to tell you some¬ thing before he comes, Kenneth—you must understand. There must be peace and understanding between us.”

The excitement in her voice alarmed Kenneth. Now, of all times, this sub¬ ject must not be taken up. There was enough in it to hurt deeply, at any time. Now Sheila could not stand it.

“My darling — wait,” he mur¬ mured.

“No! I am going to tell you— quick, before he comes, and the others come. That blow on my head—I was farther away than you think. I have been with Vincent.”

Mute with agony, Kenneth raised his eyes from Sheila’s face and looked at Mary Ellen. And even in Mary Ellen’s trusting face he read a doubt. Would the others come in, the doctor and her parents, and hear such things as this? Would other people, some day-?

It was best to let her talk now, after all, before the doctor’s car reached the drive. But his decision did not matter, in any case. There was no stopping Sheila now.

“I was almost dead. Perhaps I was dead. And at once, Vincent came to me. I don’t remember what he said, or how he said it. But I knew that he understood. He has known that I learned to love you, Kenneth, and

that you loved me, and that you—did not believe in me. That you thought I was fanciful, hysterical, maybe a little out of my mind. He has seen this for a long time, and has grieved over it and tried to help. He has seen that awful suffering would grow out of your doubt of me—unless it could be stopped. He saw that long before we felt it, you and I. And he could never reach your mind, and reaching mine would have done no good; it would only have revived old memories.

“And so he tried to touch our lives through another. It is hard to ex¬ plain, Kenneth; but he made me see again the cross-eyed assistant—the man who was anesthetizing him when —you know.

‘ ‘ I saw him. I knew that Vincent had tried hard to send him to me, to tell his story, to verify my ‘dream’ to you, so that you would feel differently toward me, so that there would be a fact on my side. But something ter¬ rible came in, there, and I was afraid —as I was afraid just before I was struck on the head, when I realized that someone was hiding behind me.

“Only, I am sure of this, Kenneth.

I came back—I waked—with this in my mind. My fear was like an awful discord breaking in. But, in spite of it, Vincent made me understand this.

“You must go, yourself, at once, and look on the floor of the car, in the tonneau. There are things there that you must see. Perhaps you have seen them, but you must look again. You must go, now, Kenneth, before any¬ one else can disturb them, before any¬ thing can stop you—it means every¬ thing—you must go-”

A new note in the hurrying voice warned Kenneth. Sheila must be humored, she must not be allowed to excite herself.

“If you’ll quiet down, dear—I hear the doctor coming. I’ll leave you with Mary Ellen—and I think I heard your mother speak, upstairs. When* they come down they’ll be less fright534


ened if you seem calm and like your¬ self. Yes, I’m going straight out to the car. I’ll look at everything.”

TZ"enneth met the doctor at the door, and motioned him inside. He heard Mary Ellen’s voice. As he went out, he saw light streaming from the upstairs windows. Mary Ellen would explain. For Sheila’s sake, he must know exactly what was on the floor of that car. He had noticed a hypodermic needle, and a “file” of white pills. Besides these, there had been other smallish things, or such was his impression.

Groping on the floor of the car, his fingers closed on a narrow, leatherbound book. He drew it out and climbed into the front seat. He could inspect it briefly by the dashlight. A memorandum book, a dopefiend’s dosage record—he would see just what it was, for he was going to enumerate every object in the car. When he had looked at this, he would feel again, and strike a match. . . .

His thoughts ran on, while he fum¬ bled with a little clasp that closed the book; a surface current of planning, an undercurrent of despair. Here was he, unable to hear what went on in the house, what the doctor said, be¬ cause he must go through the belong¬ ings of a criminal—not in the inter¬ est of revenge or justice, which could have waited until his mind was at rest about Sheila’s immediate condi¬ tion, but because he was looking for a message from Vincent—from be¬ yond the grave. And, having found nothing, how would he meet Sheila? What would pass between them when he came to her again, and afterward ? His fingers moved slowly, for he did not want to go in too soon.

And suddenly his thoughts stopped.

The little book fell open in the

circle of yellow light. Something was slipping out—an old picture of Sheila! In this tramp’s pocketbook!

Bending forward eagerly now, all but holding his breath, he fingered the pages. They were soiled, some of them stuck together, but all closely written over with ink, nearly to the end of the book. He turned over to the last written page, and held it close to the light:

‘‘She is more beautiful than the picture. I shall hide in the back seat of the car at night, until I get my chance. If too many come, I can slip out. The garage is always dark.

‘‘I look back over the years, and I can see that I have been moving to¬ ward this for a long time. First, after the thing happened that started me on the dope, I used to feel as though he -were sending me to her. I would remember—the kitchen table with the gash in it, him lying on it, uncon¬ scious, after I had given him the an¬ esthetic ; the beginning of the opera¬ tion, the cut in his side, and then the brown devils pouring in at the doors and windows—I can feel myself running away again, and afterward, the horrors, and then the morphine. It was while thinking of that at first that I used to feel as though he were sending me to the girl. I took her picture from some of his things that I found, and I used to look at it, and wonder what he wanted me to tell her. And that was strange, for I never saw him before the day he died, and his affairs were nothing to me.

“Then the dope got me altogether. And all I knew was, that I must take her—any way I could. What chance would there be for me in any decent way? A down-and-out anesthetist without a job; a dope-fiend, who’ll never have another chance; a tramp; a homely brute—ugly as hell, and cross-eyed!”

A Strange Story of Hypnosis After Death

THE SPECTRAL LOVER

By R. ANTHONY

ARNEY came back to me last night!

Something aroused me from my sleep. And when I opened my eyes I saw Barney at the foot of the bed. I could not see him clearly, but Just a vague outline, through which the furniture showed distinctly. He was like a filmy vapor which seemed to grow a trifle denser. Then he dis¬ appeared.

I had not slept well. The news of Barney’s death had shaken me. Al¬ though I did not love him, I think I liked him. Perhaps it was his over¬ bearing mastery which held me. He would command, and I seemed unable to refuse. Time and again I vowed to myself to break with him. I scolded myself for being his slave. But as soon as he appeared, my will-power was gone. It made me afraid of him, terribly afraid.

“You’ve got to be true to me,” he often said. ' ‘ If anything happens to me I’ll come back for you.”

That made me shudder. “But, Barney,” I would reply, “I don’t love you. You know that. I—I—like you, but not—not—like that. ’ ’

Then he looked at me with those stem and piercing eyes and repeated: “You belong to me, Nell. What I have I hold. And if anything hap¬ pens to- me I’ll come for you. Re¬ member that! I’ll come back for you! ’ ’ And when he spoke like that and looked at me so eompellingly, my resistance just seemed to evaporate.

I’d have no thought of my own, only that he meant what he said and would carry out his promise.

This morning, as I write this, all seems a ridiculous dream. How could there be spirits? Or, if so, how could a spirit have power over flesh and blood ? No, I will not think about the matter. Barney’s words meant noth¬ ing; they are futile. Why should I feel troubled?

Of course, that he was killed makes me feel somewhat sorry for him. But I could not mourn him. I don’t feel that I lost someone dear to me. If anything, I feel rather relieved that he is gone.

Wednesday .—He came again last night. What does it mean ? This time his image was a trifle more defi¬ nite.

Thursday .—Barney was more dis¬ tinct last night. I couldn’t sleep after that.

They noticed something at school today. That is, they noticed I didn’t feel well. The principal called me in. ‘ ‘ Miss Martin, ’’she said kindly, “I’m afraid you ’re ill. You look very tired. Better go home. I ’ll manage to have someone take your pupils today and tomorrow. You go home and rest well over the week-end so that you can come back Monday feeling perfectly fit. Perhaps it might be well for you to see a doctor. ’ ’

I cried a little and could barely thank her. Mother was surprized to see me home in the middle of the



morning. She'doesn’t understand. I couldn’t explain to her. I’m afraid I couldn’t explain to anybody.

Friday .—Barney spoke to me last night. “I’ve come for you, Nellie,” he said.

I was terrified and hid myself under the covers. But I could see him right through the blankets and counterpane. He was beckoning me.

I shook my head at him. I shivered all over, but I couldn’t say a word. My throat seemed paralyzed.

Oh, what is the matter with me? Here I am supposed to rest—that’s what the principal excused me for— but I haven’t slept a wink the last two nights, and I am restive and nerv¬ ous. Yet, whenever I lie down for a moment, Barney’s image seems to stand before me; I see his threaten¬ ing—no, commanding—eyes; I seem to feel him urging me, calling, com¬ pelling.

Ah! It isn’t fair! Barney, could you really have loved me? Then why do you wish to destroy me ?

Saturday .—Barney struggled with me in the night. I could nearly feel him, as if he were real. He seemed substantial, although I knew all the while that he w*as only a disembodied spirit. But how strong! And what terrible will-power! He was all will. And I fought him. Oh, I feel so weak! I seem to lack all strength to live—and I do not w ant to die!

Ah, Barney! You wanted me to be true to you, though I never promised that! Did you really love me? Is it the way of true love to take the life of that which it cherishes?

Sunday .—I made up my mind that I would say “No!” very definitely to Barney. Today I feel as if an evil spirit has visited me. I have read of vampires—how they steal up on toeir victims at night, and suck the blood and with it all the life-giving strength. After such an experience the victim must feel somewhat as I feel today—listless, enervated, alto¬ gether broken.

Barney spoke to me. “You must come, Nellie. It’s better if you come willingly. If you don’t it will be the worse for you. My will is greater than yours. You know that. ’ ’

“No, I will not go,” I answered. “I don’t want to go. I don’t want to go with you, Barney. I never loved you. You—you have—have ter¬ rified me.”

So I spoke my refusal. But it was all in vain. His eyes seemed to bore into mine, two terrible magnets which pulled and pulled, and against which I fought weakly. It was horrible! I shudder when I think of it. I could feel my strength, the little I had left, oozing out of me. ,1 felt as if I were being dissipated into thin air just as a tenuous vapor disappears under ••a gentle breeze. I wanted to pray, but had not even will enough to form a single word.

I must have fainted. For when I awoke it was broad day and Mother told me she had been calling me for hours. She chided me. “A regular sleepy goose. ’ ’ If Mother only knew!


[From the Diary of Dr. Burnstrum]

M ONDAY, February 21. —Mrs.

Martin called me in this after¬ noon to see her daughter, a school teacher. The girl was supposed to re¬ turn to her work today, but her mother had been unable to wake her.

Examination showed a weak and irregular pulse. I gave her an injec¬ tion of adrenalin. Miss Martin is a very pretty girl, although at the mo¬ ment her face appeared drawn, with a somewhat haunted look. Her weight seemed normal, skin color rather good. No signs of digestive or other disturbance.

While I made an examination, Mrs. Martin busied herself at Nellie’s little writing-desk, and there she found her daughter’s memoranda of her expe¬ riences. I have copied them into my

THE SPECTRAL LOVER


diary; they constitute an astonishing' record.

The injection seemed to improve the cardiac rhythm, but I was unable to rouse the girl. This fact, together , with what I read in her journal, prompted me to have her transferred to the hospital.

Tuesday, February 22. —Brent, the intern, came t6 me with an astonish¬ ing tale. And yet not so astonishing in view of what I already knew.

It seems that the nurse called him to Miss Martin’s room during the night to administer a sedative. Miss Martin had sat up and talked wildly, pleading with someone named Bar¬ ney. ‘ ‘ Asked him to let her live, and the like! ’ ’ said the nurse.

“Darned puzzling case, Doctor,” Brent offered. ‘ ‘ Nurse nearly climbed out of her boots in fright. Said it wasn’t the usual fever talk of pa¬ tients but something quite different. Well, Number 24 is still asleep. Gave her a big dose. ’ ’ With that he went away, whistling shrilly.

Too bad there is a hiatus in Nellie’s account! It would be of interest and help a lot to read in her own words what she experienced Sunday and Monday nights.

- The laboratory technician’s results were now available and I proceeded to study these. Nothing indicative! If anything, they were the results one might expect from a normal person. Certainly nothing physically wrong. To check up matters once more I w T ent to her room to question her. She was still asleep, her reflexes 1ow t and in¬ definite, altogether lethargic.

After a careful examination I looked for Father Ryan, the venerable hospital chaplain. As usual, I found him surrounded by a number of nurses who were jesting and putting catch-questions to him. I just heard one of them ask, “How long should a woman’s skirts be, Father?”

‘ ‘ Above two feet, ’ ’ was his prompt answer.

I drew him away from the laughing

group. “Look here, Father Ryan,” I said. “I know you’re something of a soul specialist. You priests Warn a lot more than physicians of the kinks and quirks that make up the human animal. ’ ’

He gave me a sidelong glance. “All of which means-?”

“I have a peculiar case on hand which puzzles me completely. It’s a mental case; of that I am positive! I think you could help me. Only, she ’s not a Catholic and-”

“If she’s a good Protestant,” he interrupted, with a twinkle in his eyes, “she’s probably a better Cath¬ olic than many Catholics I know of. But tell me about her before I see her. ’ ’

I took him to the office and showed him the memoranda she had written. “That’s the sum and substance of it all,” I remarked after he had read the lines. “I ought to add that last night she nearly—well, the attending nurse saw nothing herself, but Miss Martin spoke to whatever she saw. Nurse said she thought her patient would die. Got a good bit frightened herself.”

“ Hm! You ’ve examined her ? ”

“Physically? Yes. Blood count 0. K. No fever. Normal in every re¬ spect, except strength. Hang it! Looks as if that ghost or spirit or whatever-it-is is trying to absorb her —as if it were trying to suck the life from her body. She’s frightfully weak.- Little vitality, and virtually no resistance. Yet nothing really the matter with her.”

“Ahl This Barney—er—what’shis-name ? — Barney Lapeere — how was he killed ? ’ ’

‘ ‘ Humph! He was killed by—him¬ self. He really committed suicide. Jumped from the top of a building. They kept that part from her.”

‘ ‘ And do you happen to know why he ended himself?”

“Not particularly. There was a rumor that it was about a woman.”

“Oh! Are you sure about that?”



“No. In fact, I do not recall who told me about the matter. But—hm, let me inquire among the nurses! A hospital, you know, hears all the scan¬ dal that never gets into the papers.’'

“To be sure,” he smiled. “The scandal that not even the papers dare to print.” He paused thoughtfully. “Will you try to find out all you can about the man, Doctor? Particularly about this—er—scandal you men¬ tioned. ’ ’

'‘Oh,” I said in surprize. “Do you see some relation-?”

“Not that exactly, Doctor. What I am looking for is some connection I can break. Offhand it looks like an autohypnosis, I should say. If we can break in on that, it may be that we can save her. Well, you try, Doctor. I’ll drop in to visit her. But whether you find anything or not, I think I’ll spend the night at her bedside. ”

“Good!” I remarked. “And I think I’ll be there also. I’ll have Brent, the intern, circulate among the nurses and then see you with the bud¬ get he collects. And if I pick up anything myself during the day I’ll let you know of it. Adios!”

EDNESDAY, February 33 .— An operation and a series of office and outside calls kept me busy till late. So it was near midnight when I returned to the hospital. Im¬ mediately I made for Miss Martin’s room. Father Ryan sat beside the bed watching the girl; somewhat far¬ ther, near the door, sat two nurses.

“How is the-?” I began to

ask. But the priest made a warning gesture and placed his finger across his lips.

I tiptoed over to the bed to look at the girl. She was exceedingly pale, the pallor emphasized by the very black hair. Her lips were moving slightly, although she uttered no sound.

A questioning glance at the chap¬ lain. “Her lips started moving just before you dropped in,” he whis-

, pered. “But see!” He pointed to the girl.

Between faintly moving lips came a very small voice. “You have come for me, Barney?” it breathed, the tones barely audible, yet the words distinct.

A pause. And then, “Must I come?”

I was watching her carefully, yet was conscious that Father Ryan had got up and was now peering intently at her features. As I watched, the face took on a paler shade—a colder hue, one might say.

Again a murmur, “I am coming,” and she seemed to rouse herself.

It is difficult to describe that mo¬ ment. I could swear that she lay there absolutely motionless. Yet I got the impression that she had gath¬ ered herself as if to leave the bed. There was no visible movement, yet I felt action. I sensed struggle, with¬ out being able to perceive any phys¬ ical evidence of it.

It was then that the priest spoke. “Stop, Nellie!” he cried sharply, his glance fixed on her closed eyes. And with careful syllabification, “ You — must — not — go! Barney — was—not — true — to — you! Barney — hilled — him¬ self!”

Nellie lay motionless, her face quiet, her lips no longer moving. In a quicker cadence, but still stressing every syllable, the priest resumed. “Barney Lapeere demanded your faith, Nellie, but broke his own for another woman. Nellie, do you hear me ? Barney — Lapeere — killed — him¬ self — over — another — woman!” And then he seized her hands and began to draw her gently but steadily into a seated position. “Come, Nellie!” he said. “You are alive! You are well!”

There was a faint sigh, a flush mounted to her cheeks, and her eyes fluttered open. But it was not sur¬ prize that showed in her glance—it was anger!

“Oh! The coward! The abomi¬ nable-wretch!” she whispered.

THE SPECTRAL LOVER


“It is true, Nellie,’’ said the chap¬ lain. ‘ ‘ He has gone now. ’ ’ This was an assertion, and the girl did not con¬ tradict it. “You will live, child. Go to sleep now. You must rest a lot. It was a cruel experience that you have survived, but it is past and you will live. Remember that. ’ ’

As he spoke she fell back to her pil¬ lows and gazed at the priest with sur¬ prize, which slowly turned into an expression of childlike trust. She smiled gently, her eyes closed, and she began to breathe deeply and reg¬ ularly.

“Better give her food,” said the chaplain to the nurse. “Lots of food —milk with eggs, and the like. I think she ’ll take the food, even while asleep. ’ ’

I nodded my assent to the direc¬ tions, and the nurses left for the kitchen. Meanwhile I drew the priest aside and asked him, “Look here, Father Ryan, you might tell me ex¬ actly what’s what. No bed for you till you’ve explained!”

“Very well. Has it ever occurred to you that people die because they have lost interest in life?”

‘ ‘ Of course. Every physician knows that.”

“Well, if people can live because they have an interest in life, why can’t a person die because said per¬ son has an interest in death?”

“Oh!”

“But Nellie had no real interest in death, you must admit. That was clear from what she wrote. She thought she had; but if I could prove to her that it was not a true interest, then she would not think of dying— at least, not dying as yet. Such thoughts are all very well for an old war-horse like myself, but hardly proper for a lively and healthy young creature. ’ ’

“You are talking in abstract terms, Father Ryan,” I scolded. “Kindly get down to concrete facts.”

“ Very well, very well. In this case it was a dead person that seemed to

compel her interest. So I destroyed that interest and gave her life.”

“ I see that. But how-? ’ ’

“If you please, Doctor! Let me follow my own reasoning. Offhand one might say it was a clear case of autohypnosis. But I am not so sure of that. Whence came her interest in dying? It was not natural with her. For she explicitly states over and over that she did not love the man, that she did not want to follow him, that she did not want to die. Hence that interest did not originate within her, but was supplied by some extraneous source. Her memoranda make clearly evident what that source was: it was Barney Lapeere. ’ ’

‘ ‘ Of course. Then your method was to overcome Barney’s influence by proving that he was unfaithful.”

“Not quite that. Let me tell you something about Barney. Your man Brent is something of a genius. He managed to compile quite a bibliogra¬ phy in a few hours. This Lapeere was undoubtedly a hypnotic person. More than one person remarked the influence of his glance, especially on women. For a young man (he was only twenty-three) he had a remark¬ ably long list of escapades, unsavory or savory, as you look at it.” Here the chaplain smiled wryly. ‘ ‘ The last months, while he was ostensibly court¬ ing Nellie, he had an affair which turned out rather bad. Instead of facing things, he committed suicide. Most of these Don Juans have a yel¬ low streak. They have courage to make love, and that is all. ’ ’

‘ ‘ Quite true. But admitting that, ’ ’

I urged, ‘ ‘ what bearing-? ’ ’

“Pshaw,” the chaplain inter¬ rupted. “Don’t you see it yet? The man worked on her fear. It’s a case where one will supplanted another or at least dominated it completely. Nel¬ lie was aware of that much herself. Also, there was post-hypnotic sug¬ gestion, only till now I had never thought that it could last after the death of the hypnotist. But here—



well, it was fear that he worked on. She was afraid of him; that’s clear from her notes. Men die of fear. What can one expect in a woman who has been half-hypnotized, whose will has been constantly sapped, and into whose mind a pernicious idea has been implanted? Here it was the idea of coming for her; she feared just that. And he seems deliberately to have em¬ phasized that over and over, as if, consciously or unconsciously, he were preparing for a gruesome experiment. It was this dominating influence, strong in life, and just as strong or stronger in death, that I had to break down. That’s what I gathered from the data given by Brent and by Nellie h.erself. ’ ’

“I see. Given a hypnosis, how can it be broken?”

“Yes. It meant that I had to find some way of attacking him. Here is my logic: A decent girl admires two virtues in men, courage and loyalty— loyalty to others and courage to face the consequences of an act. She did not love him. She protested that over and over. Still, she felt his power, but only because she considered him an honorable mm. Like most of us, she believed that strength of will is based on honor.' Hence, show her that the man was dishonorable, and his control over her would be gone. They should have told her the truth when he killed himself. All this would not. have happened.”

“I agree with you there, Father' Ryan,” I said. “So your method then was to arouse her jealousy ? ’ ’

“Her what?” he demanded, as if astonished. ‘ ‘ I thought you had seen deeper than that, Doctor. You seem to be thinking of the well-known fact that every woman, even the best of them, likes to believe that she is ad¬ mired for herself alone, and that the professed admiration is restricted to herself. At any rate, she will feel kindly toward the admirer. That’s one of your ideas, isn’t it? The sec¬ ond is that of the ‘woman scorned.’

Oh, I know you men! Someone once got off a sonorous line that ‘hell hath no fury like a woman scorned, ’ and since then this funny humanity be¬ lieves that it must be true for every woman, first and last. If an admirer turns on a woman she will hate him. Bah! Hence you infer that I called Nellie’s attention to Barney’s disloy¬ alty in order to arouse the jealousy that supposedly is never very deep beneath the surface of any wbman.”

“Well, isn’t that exactly what you did?”

“Oh, the conceit of these men! And you, too, Doctor! There were two things I said to her: that Barney had killed himself and that he was not true to her. The. other woman never bothered her. The fact was that she realized that he had been dis¬ honorable, and further that he was a coward, and therefore had neither courage nor loyalty. My words di¬ rected her full attention on Barney. She did not think of herself at all, only of Barney; that is, what, the truth did to Barney’s image. Before then it was a picture of strength, of power, which she feared, but re¬ spected. The other and true image is that of a cowardly weakling, strong only in pursuing women, and in noth¬ ing else. An idol deflated; what . longer should she fear? The moment that sank into her consciousness, that moment the hypnosis was ended. With the destruction of fear, she was free—and well! ’ ’

“Hm, you may be right,” I re¬ marked.

“Of course I am right. Think it over. It was the fear of Barney I attacked, of Barney as a powerful but honorable man. Jealousy had nothing to do with it. She feared him, re¬ member that. And there you are!”

With that I left him and went back to the patient. I found her sleeping soundly, her pulse strong and regular, a delicate flush on her cheeks. Hm! Maybe.the priest was right. And, in his words, there you are!

B AILEY’S Dictionary, published in 1751, defines a Familiar as ‘‘A Spirit or Devil supposed to attend on Witches, Wizards, etc.” The belief that every sorcerer or per¬ son in league with the Evil One had a familiar spirit prevailed all through the centuries from ancient to mod¬ em times. The Jewish King Solo¬ mon, because of his wisdom, was for ages reputed to have been a necro¬ mancer who had always two demons, one male and one female in attend¬ ance, ready to carry out his wishes.

Only occasionally do we hear of the familiar being a good spirit. A man in France in the Sixteenth Cen¬ tury was said to have one which had attended him for thirty-seven years. He never saw it, but it awoke him in the morning, touched him upon the right ear if he did well, upon the left if he did wrong, and gave other evi¬ dences of its reality.

The commonest manifestation of the spirit was in the form of an ani¬ mal which served a witch or wizard, who often received it when they agreed to sell their souls to the Devil, who usually appeared to them as a man in black. When the new witch had signed the agreement or made her mark with her blood, the Devil, according to an old writer, “delivers to her an imp or familiar; which in the shape of a cat or kitten, a mole, miller-fly, or some other insect or animal, at stated times of the day sucks her blood through teats on dif¬ ferent parts of her body.”

The commonest picture of a witch known to us today shows her with a broom and black cat. It was on the broomstick that she flew through the air to midnigjit witch meetings, while the black cat was her familiar. The familiar was seen in numerous other forms—dogs, birds, frogs, mice, and strange, hideous animals unlike any others known. If the animal was a small one, it was usually kept in a box or earthen pot on a bed of wool.

,A woman at a witch trial in En¬ gland testified that she called at the home of the alleged witch, but the latter was out. The caller then peeped through the bedroom window, “and espied a spirit to look out of a potsharde from under a cloth, the nose thereof beeing browne like unto a Ferret.” Elizabeth Bennet, an¬ other Sixteenth Century witch, “ac¬ knowledged that shee had two spirits, one called Suckin, beeing blacke like a Dogge, the other called Lierd, beeing red like a Lion. Suckin, the examinant said, is a hee and the other is a shee. Many times they drinke of her milke bowle.”

These familiars not only did harm to persons against whom the witch had a grudge, but to religious people whom the Devil ordered her to work evil upon. In 1588 in Essex, England, an old woman confessed that “she had three spirits; one like a cat which she called Lightfoot, one like a toad, which she called Lunch, the third like a Weasill, which she called Makeshift. . . . The Cat



would kill cows, the Weasill would kill horses, the Toad would plague men in their bodies.” The familiar of a witch named Margaret Waite was “a deformed thing with many feet, blacke of colour, rough with hair, the bigness of a cat.” Another woman had a familiar “in the shape

of a bird, yellow in colour, about the bigness of a crow—the name of it is Tewhit.” A man witness testified that a witch named Margaret Moone had twelve imps. She told him their names, but he could remember only

[THE END]

============================================================
THE FANTASMAL TERROR
by Willis Overton
============================================================
six of them—Jesus, Jockey, Sandy, Mrit, Elizabeth and Collyn.

A Bizarre Story Is

THE FANTASMAL TERROR

By WILLIS OVERTON

T HE fate of that strange book, Laughter of the Pit, was a dark and baffling mystery. For almost a year Kaspar Voldune had been writing the story, filling it with the spell of his singular personality. He had discussed it often with his intimate companions and had read to them many passages from its weird¬ ly fascinating pages.

Then, suddenly, he became oddly silent about it. To the questions of his relatives and friends he gave no enlightening answer. “The history of that book is a closed chapter— closed and sealed,” he told them, and would say no more on the subject.

Kaspar’s cousin, Dwight Prescott, in his judicial manner, voiced his views about the mystery. “You can never tell what Kaspar will do,” he said, his rather pale features and thoughtful gray eyes assuming a criti¬ cal expression. “There’s a bit of freakishness, and even of superstition,

in him. Take that ivory Buddha on his mantel-shelf; he half believes that it brings him luck. My cousin seems to be an opportunist; but that, I think, is due to a trace of fatalism. When something unusual happens, he feels, in a vague way, that destiny has provided the situation for his par¬ ticular benefit. You can’t solve the secrets of a mind like his.”

Even the author’s wife, gay, vola¬ tile Mona, could not tell what had be¬ fallen Laughter of the Pit. “My hus¬ band is a riddle,” she asserted one day. “That’s why I love him so much. I adore mysteries, you know. Kaspar is buried half the time in a cloud of dreams. Sometimes he is brooding and silent; sometimes he talks with a strange, wild eloquence, and has, oh, such queer ideas! Maybe that manu¬ script is locked in his desk; maybe he threw it in the wastebasket; maybe he is writing it over. Nobody knows, and there isn’t any way of finding out.”

THE FANTASMAL TERROR


T he spring night was poignantlyalluring. The delicious perfume of lilacs mingled with the fresh, ex¬ hilarating odor of newly turned earth. Full moon and a myriad of stars shone in the azure dome of heaven. Nature pervaded even the great cities, carrying to the multitudes the mes¬ sage of her yearning, restless spirit.

But Kaspar Voldune, in his study, wa3 too busy to heed the pulse and stir of the season, save as its magic influence mingled subtly with his thoughts. He was in the throes of creative writing—was nearing the end of his masterpiece, Laughter of the Pit.

He had been working on the book all day, with the ease and eager swift¬ ness of one approaching the end of a great achievement. Just a few more hours of writing, and Mollis, the hero of the tale, would be free from the demoniacal Gaffon. But Kaspar, im¬ pelled though he was by the mighty urge of his art, was not immune to weariness. His right arm ached from incessant use of the pen; his eyes felt tired and inflamed.

Rising from his seat at the desk, he began to pace the room—from the door to Jthe fireplace, where he cast a glance at the ivory Buddha on the mantel, reposing between two Colo¬ nial candlesticks of hammered silver; to the door again; and back once more to the fireplace. There was something striking in his appearance. He moved with a gliding, serpentine grace, and his feet made no sound on the soft, thick rug. He was a tall, slender man, with an air of distinction. His cloudy brown eyes were slightly oblique; but so minute was this Oriental character¬ istic that few had ever noticed it. His features, though very flexible and delicately molded, were usually set in a fixed expression that masked his changing moods and emotions.

His mind was now on the villain of his story, the fiendish Gaffon. “I’d like to turn the tables on that mon¬ ster,’’ Kaspar thought. “But I see

no plausible way to manage it. It is all I can do to get Mollis out of his clutches. ’ ’

He continued to walk back and forth, his imagination dwelling on this idea. “Ah!” he suddenly murmured to himself; “little Braimer! He can do it! A few slight changes in the book, and little Braimer, the pawn, the character seemingly of the least importance, will be in a position to punish Gaffon.’’

With the zeal of one who loves his work he plunged into the details of his new idea, still pacing rapidly as he planned. A passage must be de¬ leted here; a few words added there; a number of trifling alterations ar¬ ranged. His thoughts turned to that final dramatic chapter which was still to be written. He would finish the book tonight, he decided, while he was in the heat of inspiration. To¬ morrow he could revise.

Having seated himself at the desk, he got a fresh sheet of paper, picked up his pen, and began to write. But black specks danced before his eyes, while the trembling of his hand and the nervous jerking of his arm made legible writing impossible. He must be terribly tired, he thought, to have reached such a condition as this. Peering into a Venetian mirror that hung on the wall beside his desk, he saw that his features were drawn and pale, and that his eyes were bloodsdiot. And yet, aside from those symp¬ toms which had checked his work, he felt no fatigue. It seemed that he would have strength enough to walk for hours without weariness, and his brain was abnormally active.

To walk! The thought appealed to him. A moment later, he was in the hall, getting his hat. As he put it on, the living-room door was opened, and Mona entered the hall.

“Where are you going, Kaspar?” she inquired.

“For a walk,” he said. “I’m too tired to write, and too excited tu sleep. ’ ’



She went to him, and gazed thoughtfully into his face. ‘ ‘ You look tired, dear,” she remarked.

“A stroll will do me good,” he said. “Don’t wait up for me, Mona. I may not get hack for a good while. ’ ’ He bent down and kissed her.

“Kaspar,” she said eoaxingly, clinging to him, after they had ex¬ changed kisses, “promise me that you won’t do any more writing tonight. ’ ’

“Why, darling?” he asked.

“You’re working too hard,” she answered. “You’ve been writing fu¬ riously all day, without a bit of recreation. So promise to forget about your book until morning, that’s a dear. ’ ’

“Maybe I can’t forget it,” he said, “but I won’t write any more this evening. ’ ’

She went blithely back to the liv¬ ing-room, humming a little tune, and pausing an instant to the doorway to blow a last kiss to her husband.

W hen Kaspar stepped out of the house, he realized for the first time the full beauty and charm of the night. He gazed up at the large round moon and the vast network of stars that gleamed in the sky. A light breeze fanned his cheek; and faintly, from afar, came the sounds of gay laughter and the riotous music of a dance orchestra,

Kaspar had been walking about ten minutes, and had passed several peo¬ ple on the quiet street, when he came face to face with his cousin, Dwight Prescott,

“Good evening, Kaspar,” Dwight said.

“Good evening, Dwight,” was the response. “It’s a wonderful night, isn’t it?”

“Yes,” said Dwight, “it’s the proper kind of weather for this sea¬ son.” Presently he added, “Where are you going?”

“Just for a walk,” Kaspar replied. “And you?” There was a quality in his cousin’s voice that always jarred

upon him, and it jarred especially on this night so fraught with the spirit of romance. It was a certain intel¬ lectual coldness in Dwight’s tone—an indifference toward all things beauti¬ ful and poetic.

“Do you mind if I walk along with you?” Dwight asked.

“I’d rather be alone tonight,’’ said Kaspar. “I’m in a mood for silent musing. ’ ’

“All right,” said Prescott, in a tone of tolerant amusement, as he strolled away. “Dream your dreams. I’ll go on over and chat with the fellows at Norton’s.”

Kaspar, too, resumed his walk. But he had taken only a few steps when he felt, by a kind of sixth sense, that his cousin had turned round and was coming up behind him. Facing about, he saw, to his amazement, that Dwight was not there. A glance along the street revealed his cousin in the distance, moving steadily in the di¬ rection which he had first taken. Smiling at this trick of his faney, Kaspar turned again and continued on his way.

He was fitted to enjoy, to a marked degree, the delights of nocturnal roaming, the sense of dreamy detach¬ ment, of mystery and vastness and glamorous expectancy. The sounds of title city gradually diminished, until a profound hush filled the streets. Still Kaspar continued his solitary -wan¬ dering, in rapt communion with the night.

But time and again there came that feeling of being followed, of not be¬ ing alone. His thoughts wandered to his unfinished book, only to be checked abruptly by the sensation of a presence near by. His mind revert¬ ed to the witchery' of the night; but once more, in the midst of his musings, he was startled by the conscious¬ ness of that other being.

As the moments elapsed, this feel¬ ing grew more emphatic, and a vague terror settled upon him. The air was becoming damp; a chilly, depressing

THE FANTASMAL TERROR


wind arose; and fragments of cloud scurried through the sky.

As Kaspar walked homeward, he was still aware of the silent, invisible entity. He fancied once that the thing was about to touch him, and he thereupon quickened his pace.

On reaching home, he stole quiet¬ ly into his study, and softly closed its door. Even now, he was not dis¬ posed to retire. He hastened to build a fire, for his teeth were chattering.

Soon fie was seated in an easy-chair before the fireplace. He had not turned on the lights; for the fire, and the moonlight streaming in through the windows, filled the room with a dim and spectral radiance. Kaspar could hardly believe that this was his own study, so different did it seem in the weird half-light. He glanced about as if to reassure himself, caught a glimpse of his image in the mirror, beheld the manuscript on the desk, and then his gaze came to rest on the ivory Buddha which adorned the mantelpiece.

He had bought the idol years earlier, while traveling in the Orient. And now he prized it as a talisman; for good luck had certainly come to him ever since the date of the pur¬ chase. Eastern peoples were absurd, he thought, to worship such^inanimate objects. And yet—did not his own experience prove that the little ivory god held some occult power? He wondered if, indeed, these idols might not have a peculiar attribute, quite natural, but too subtle for science to analyze, which could influence human life.

S uddenly, as if in agreement with his thought, the Buddha seemed to nod. While Kaspar stared in amaze¬ ment, the idol’s expression and its entire form underwent a gradual change. It was not a Buddha that he gazed at now, but a hideous figure, strangely familiar. He searched his mind, as in a nightmare, to discover

where he had seen it before—and all at once he knew. It was Gaffon!

Swiftly the figure grew larger, and acquired the complexion of a human being—the sallow complexion which Kaspar’s imagination had given to Gaffon. The creature began to make definite movements, and queer gur¬ gling sounds issued from its mouth. It stepped to the edge of the mantel, turned slightly to the left, and sprang to the floor.

It stood there at Kaspar’s side, grinning fiendishly. The diabolical being had grown in the course of a moment to the size of a man.

“So you are planning to have me punished,” Gaffon snarled, thrusting his leering face toward Kaspar.

The author shrank back. “But— but—you—can’t be Gaffon!” he said hoarsely. “You—he—is only a char¬ acter in my story.”

“Is that so!” The horrible face drew nearer.

“How—how could Gaffon be real,” said Kaspar, “when I invented him?”

“Maybe God, who made you in his own image,” said Gaffon, “has given you a little of his miraculous creative power. Or it may be that my ex¬ istence is the cause, and your story the effect.” His tone was harsh and menacing.

“Go away,” Kaspar implored. “You frighten me!”

“You are planning to have me punished,” Gaffon repeated. “You intend to let Little Braimer crush me.”

“That’s the way I want my book to end,” Kaspar admitted.

A bestial growl came from Gaffon’s throat. “You shall not!” he said fiercely. “You won’t dare!”

“Why not?” said Kaspar, sum¬ moning all his courage. “If I have created you, why can’t I destroy you?”

‘ ‘ God may grant the power to pro¬ duce what has not been,” said Gaffon,



"and yet He may withhold the power to annihilate.”

‘ ‘ If you are in some way the cause of my story, ” Kaspar declared, ‘ ‘ then I’m not responsible for what I write.”

"I may cause the story in a general way,” Gaff on said, ‘‘without deter¬ mining all its details. My theory is that I and this book about me act and react upon each other. If you end the tale with my defeat, it will ruin me/'

A silence fell between them. At length Kaspar spoke. ‘‘Was it you who followed me about this even¬ ing?” he ashed.

"Yes,” Gaff on answered.

"Why did you eome forth from the Buddha?” said Kaspar, after anoth¬ er pause. “Until now it has always brought me luck, not horror. ’ ’ He was trying vainly to converse in a casual manner—to make the situation seem natural. And he was sparring for time in which to think of some means of escape from this demon.

"Because you were looking 1 at the Buddha,” said Gaffon, in answer to his last question. "But enough of this talk!” He went to the desk, and re¬ turned with a paper-knife. “Are you afraid?” he inquired raspingly, as he brandished the knife before Kaspar’s face.

"Yes,” moaned Kaspar, cringing in his chair.. He wanted to rise and rush from the room, but he could not stir.

Gaffon tossed the paper-knife back upon the desk. "I have a better weapon than that,” was his sinister comment. "I won’t hurt your body, Kaspar Voldune. It’s your mind that I threaten. Call me a figment of your fancy if you like, but remember that just as surely as you oppose me, I’ll drive you mad.”

Kaspar called forth bis last spark of defiance. “In the morning,” he said, "I ’ll laugh at this delusion, and finish the book I am writing.”

"Will you?” Gaffon snarled. "Will

you? Then I will wreek your soul!” His gorgonlike face came closer, and slowly his bands, like an eagle’s tal¬ ons, reached for Kaspar’s throat.

The author shivered and shrank away. He lifted Ms hands as if to repel the attack, and then let them drop limply at his sides. He was afraid, not so much of personal vio¬ lence, as of contact with this loath¬ some creature. He would postpone the touch of those frightful hands to the ultimate fraction of a second. He dosed his eyes to shut out the grisly spectacle. And then, for a moment, he waited.

A sudden release of the tension—a feeling that the suspense was broken —caused him to open his eyes. Gaf¬ fon was gone ! Kaspar drew a hand¬ kerchief from his pocket, and tremu¬ lously wiped the eold moisture from his forehead. "I eouldn’t have stood much more of that,” he muttered. Shakily he crossed the room and turned on the lights. A look into the mirror revealed a ghastly reflection of himself.

He must find something to ocetspy his mind—something on which to an¬ chor Ms turbulent thoughts. Picking up the manuscript on his desk, he took it to his seat by the fireplaee, where he could banish the chill that gripped; him.

But he could not read it. His mind was still in a whirl. "I couldn’t have stood much more: of that,” he repeat¬ ed. He laid the story upon his knees, and sat, for a long time, gazing down at it. His glance wandered to the blazing fire, and then returned to the manuscript. He regarded it wistfully for a moment, raised it from his knees, and tossed it, with a swift, im¬ pulsive movement, into the devouring flames.

He glanced at the impassive Bud¬ dha resting on the mantel-shelf. Did a sardonic smile pass over its fea¬ tures, or was it his imagination? He could never be sure.

TtW

B-WARNER

“The lurid chain appeared hazily to be the dancing white body of the woman he had loved.”

Through a circle that ever retumeth in To the selfsame spot,

And much of Madness, and more of Sin, And Horror the soul of the plot.

—Poe; The Conqueror Worm.

H IS first sensation, when he groaned baek to conscious¬ ness, was that of bitter and intense cold. Then, becoming fully awake, he was aware of grinding pains in his body, as though each bone and muscle owned a separate aehe. He shivered convulsively and opened his eyes.

It was very dark and he could see nothing around him, but high above there gleamed for a second a lurid,

ruddy glare, which flickered like leaping flames, then vanished—ac¬ companied by a clang of metal, as though a furnace door had been opened and closed.

Puzzled, he listened but could hear no sounds, except a far, faint crack¬ ling like hemlock boughs snapping in a fire. His eyes ached with the strain of watching, and he closed them, too weary to move.

Where was he? Surely he must be dreaming in his bed at the castle of Rutzau, owned by his cousin Franz, and yet he seemed to be awake.

Ah, Franz the blockhead, Franz the cuckold: yet Franz the lucky,> for



he was fortunate Franz with the beautiful wife!

What a joke it was on Franz, to be sure, that he should thus entertain his wife’s lover so unsuspectingly! Per¬ haps his wits had been addled as well as his body smashed, when Franz had fallen from the cliff two years before. And the cream of the jest was that Franz had never known how the ac¬ cident had come about, but stilh believed that the edge of the cliff had crumbled away beneath him!

How could a man be such a fool and live? No wonder that Qlga de¬ spised her husband now!

The man chuckled at the thought, and sneezed violently. He must be taking cold; how came it that the bed was so damp and—hard?

He rolled over and his hands came in contact with rock, bare, icy and wet. He was shocked wide awake at once. Where in God’s name could he be?

Abruptly, horror surged around in the dark and left him trembling.

Rock! Wet stone! Half-forgotten tales from the black history of Rutzau swarmed through his head.

If ever a castle were haunted by ghosts, it should be Rutzau if even a third of the stories that had been whispered about its torture chambers were true. Rumor spoke, with hushed breath and backward-roving eye, of deep pits and rooms cut in the solid rock that formed the castle’s founda¬ tion; murmured, too, of men that had entered the castle and never re¬ turned—as men-; told also of others who were not: seen again, and guessed darkly at the reason; mentioned tor¬ tures under which men prayed to be placed upon the rack instead, regard¬ ing it as a pleasant couch in compari¬ son to the bed of pain they lay upon.

Also there were whispers regarding rooms where dwelt the Iron Maiden, ever ready with insatiable crushing embrace for any victim; other rooms where the strappado, thumbscrews and the boot wrung truth or anything

that the master of Rutzau wished to know from lying tongues that would not reply to minor tortures but answered eagerly hoping their reward would be quick death as they under¬ went the Greater Question.

Too, he had heard of the oubliette, a pit with walls of sheer stone, peopled by the rats, fierce with hun¬ ger, to which men were flung living.

Could he be in the dungeons of Rutzau? Did Franz know?

He staggered to his feet, swaying with faintness. Again that lurid flare overhead, followed by the omi¬ nous clang, as though someone stoked a furnace in the air.

He began to run in the dark, drunkenly weaving from side to side. Almost at once he felt the impact of a tremendous blow upon his entire body and he was hurled backward, striking liis head cruelly upon the ground.

Like a dog which has received an unexpected kick, he yelped with the pain and, upon hands and knees, scuttled crabwise backward. Soon he encountered another obstacle with his heels, which resisted further progress, and he stood up, reaching as high as possible with his hands. Nothing projected from the wall, which was smooth and slippery to the touch as his exploring fingers passed over its damp surface.

The wall was gently curved, and keeping his left hand upon it, he set out to follow whither it might lead him. He had taken nine steps when his hand plunged into vacancy and he stumbled.

The recess in the wall was not deep, but it was already occupied by a furry body that squealed and writhed under his hand and squirmed when he gripped it, setting sharp teeth into his thumb. He jerked his hand out of the hole, with the creature hanging from his thumb, holding tight with teeth and claws and a prehensile tail that wound snakily about his wrist.

With his other hand he loosened the claws one at a time, which fastened

THE CHAIN

elsewhere, while the teeth went on gnawing hungrily. Half crazed, he fought the thing that seemed bent on eating him in small mouthfuls, snarl¬ ing while it chewed. He screeched like a beast when the teeth met through the fleshy portion of his hand and tore a bit away.

With his free hand he clutched the thing by the back and ripped it loose, battering it on the floor until it wriggled no longer; but his furious rage was not satisfied until he had tom it into ragged halves and hurled them, wet and flapping, from him.

He stood, breathing hard in great gasps, and something began to fight with another something not far away in the dark, squealing little wicked cries.

Something ran across his bare feet and he kicked at it, but struck the wall instead. He cursed vehemently and, limping, resumed his journey along the wall. The wall was at his left, the clamor of a bloody quarrel at his right. Yet as he advanced, the row did not lessen with distance, but continued undiminished so that an ugly worm of fear began to crawl in his brain—a thought which he dared not allow himself to dwell upon.

When his hand again entered an opening in the wall and the squab¬ bling over the dead beast was no farther away, he could no longer deny the fearful fact. He was in the oubliette!

For a third time the heights glowed red from an unseen fire, and again followed that solemn boom like a fu¬ neral bell tolling dismally one—a long pause—two and three—and from above a shower of small glittering particles rained down—a sparkling hail.

Many went dark ^before they reached the floor, but others, larger than the rest, shone like fireflies as they fell, and stretching out his hand he caught one in his palm.

With a cry of pain he dropped it.

It was a hot coal, a red ember that stuck to his hand and hissed.

Then through the darkness of the pit, from high in air, floated down a sardonic chuckle. Instantly, without a second’s warning, the pit was flood¬ ed with light from invisible sources, which revealed to the man, after the first blinding glare had passed, the horror of his prison.

For a hundred feet the walls of the pit rose sheer and smooth, with neither crack nor cranny for a foot¬ hold. About four feet from the floor, several openings pierced the rock, and into them were tumbling in a head¬ long scramble gray shapes as large as cats, round-eared and gaunt, their pointed snouts blood-dabbled from the cannibal feast, and in the center of the floor lay in fragments what had been a huge rat.

High above, a cripple stumped about the edge of the oubliette, and the man below knew it for his cousin, his heart saying gloomily, “Franz knows! ’ ’

F ranz lay down and swung an arm over the pit’s edge—an arm that, curiously short, seemed to have been broken in several places and clumsily reset.

Was he shaking his fist? And then the man below saw that Franz was beckoning to him. Faintly fell a word, “Climb,’’ then again, “Climb up the chain,” and he saw that from the hidden mysteries above a long beam was swinging out until its end was directly over him.

Upon the metal beam there was fixed a large pulley, over which ran continuously joined links of iron which-now were moving and falling down—down.

Slow-dropping, the end of the chain came nearer until his hands could grip it; and still descended. It touched the floor and stopped, swaying there. As he held to the cold links, he could feel the vibration of the engine that had lowered it.



The Links were large and heavy, their openings large enough to insert a hand or foot. He fixed himself comfortably as might be and waited to be lifted from the pit

How Franz would suffer for this when he got out! Let him taste a little of his own pit, perhaps! And then again from above, the word fell, ‘‘Climb,” interrupting his pleasant vindictive thoughts.

Perceiving that the eripple did not intend to lift him out, he set his teeth and began to elimb the hundred feet of chain. Franz would have his little joke, he thought, but when he got out—an ugly grin—someone else might laugh.

Still he might have to beg for help after all: only half-way up now and he did not feel strong.

Why, he had been climbing for hours, it seemed! Strange he was not already at the top toward which he strained!

He glanced below and nearly fell in horror. The floor of the pit, nearly forty feet across, was carpeted with the masses of the fallen chain. The chain was being lowered at the same speed at which he was climbing! While he looked below he dropped ten feet nearer the bottom of the pit.

Furiously he began again to climb, regained his ten feet, five feet more, and the chain at an increased rate dropped down.

Above, Franz laughed, but it was more nearly a cackle, and the man be¬ low felt hope die within him, for he knew that Franz the cuckold was fully aware and mad.

‘‘Climb!” he shouted down. “Climb!”

But the man no longer climbed; holding tight instead he watched the floor come near.

Fifteen feet from the bottom, the chain was loosened suddenly, then caught, and he fell from it. Before he eould rise, a heavy length of metal lay across his body, pinning him

down. His flimsy night-garments tore as he struggled loose.

While he was freeing himself, the chain hung steady without dropping, but when he moved away the swaying thing followed, guided by the patient cunning of the crazed man above.

The rough metal cut his feet as he walked over it, and he wished for shoes. He kneeled down dose by the wall, took off his jacket and tore it into strips which he bound about his feet. While he was doing this the chain was coining slowly down, build¬ ing heaps of metal which overbal¬ anced and fell dangerously near, but not touching him.

Then as he anxiously sought for some retreat from the growing men¬ ace, he saw a slight depression in the wall; he might fit himself into this and be safe from a direct blow.

He dived for it and as closely as might be he flattened himself into the niche and, scarcely breathing, waited. Perhaps Franz had not seen!

The hope was vain, for the chain swung after him and a broad mound of metal links rose like a titanic mushroom lifting its head before the niche. With the squeal of a trapped animal, he darted from his lair, clawed the chain aside, sprang through the narrowing aperture that was left, and sprawled upon his face.

Before he could scramble erect, something struck his shoulder. The chain was at his side. Already a tremulous pile shook uncertainly above him, about to topple.

He rolled aside as it fell, but not far enough to escape, for an arm was caught. Desperately he pried and struggled to gain away, finally pull¬ ing loose at the expense of a tom hand.

While he fought, the chain had withdrawn to the other side of the pit and had filled it high, a terrace like tangled, petrified, disjointed snakes. Now when he stood up, it swung toward him again.

THE CHAIN


He sprang away; the chain fol¬ lowed as he backed toward the wall. He ran; and then began a strange pursuit, for ever as he fled, at his heels marched like a sentient thing— the Chain!

It poured into the pit, link after link piling upon the others to form vast heaps of metal which would top¬ ple and fall. The man wandered helplessly among these metal ten¬ tacles that were thrown out, all but crushed by the heavy coils and mounds that swayed erratically all about him.

Again he slunk behind a heap of metal and mouthed and mowed, gib¬ bering at the chain as it sought him out.

To his tortured mind and feverish imagination, the chain, while it swung and created a hill of metal in the center of the pit, took on a new and monstrous shape. It seemed like a metal giant, its blind head above the clouds, swaying rhythmically from side to side and searching for him in the oubliette. Fumbling about with a hundred clanking arms, it stalked him with a dreadful ghast¬ ly patience, for the end was sure. And towering mightily before his hiding-place, it drove him forth again and struck him down with a hundred¬ weight of iron links.

He struggled up once more, cling¬ ing to life, bruised and hurt, whining and whimpering now, all pride for¬ gotten. Bitterly he cursed the name of the woman whose fair face had brought him here to walk with Death.

From high overhead came down a malignant sound—the low, quiet tit¬ tering of the madman, watching, planning, carefully goading his vic¬ tim round about the pit. The man below looked up, a curse upon his lips in which the name of Franz was mingled—a curse which gave place to a scream of abysmal terror as he realized the inconceivable frightful¬ ness of the approaching doom.

For several yards from the lip of

the pit, the chain glowed red with heat, and as he watched, the links that now came, following, shone yel¬ low, then white, flaked with black patches of soot on which ran and twinkled tiny racing crowds of sparks in endless chase.

The chain was passing through the roaring furnace above; white-hot and coming down. . . .

It touched the colder links and made a pile which he avoided. It swung around the pit and laid a cir¬ cle around him; swinging still it formed a narrowing spiral at whose center he stood shivering with the agony of anticipation. It neared him, hung steady, then swung quickly at him like the leap of a python. He shrieked and darted aside.

His feet came down on the glowing links, and the rags around his feet smoked and burst into flame. Weep¬ ing, he tore them away and trod the flaming path with naked feet.

That which followed was a matter of moments, but to him it seemed a foretaste of eternity spent in pun¬ ishment.

T he chain came slowly down, livid with heat and leprously scaled with oxidized metal, pulsating in rip¬ ples along its length from the throb¬ bing engine that lowered it to the floor, building shimmering heaps for his tortured climbing.

Stumbling over scorching ridges, he rounded the pit, limping feebly along over the hideous surface that drove him to his doom. Best impossible, he tottered on his way, hope as dead within him as in any poor lost soul that crosses with treadmill trot some smoking, horizonless plain of hell.

From the walls, cracking with heat, jetted out white puffs of steam, but above their piping whistle there rumbled in the man’s crazed brain strange roaring voices, and sometimes he vacuously smiled as he listened to the ravings of a mind in dissolution —and plodded on his way. And



though his eyes were clouded and dim, he began to see visions, and to him the livid swaying chain appeared hazily to be the dancing white body of the woman he had loved.

He turned to follow instead of flee¬ ing as before, but she tripped away lightly, mocking, and he could come no nearer, for the maniac above man¬ aged the chain so that his prisoner should not be touched by it, thinking perhaps that he had not yet paid fully and would find Death too dear a friend.

The man below was growing un¬ conscious of his pain, mercifully be¬ lieving, with his shattered mind, that he dwelt in happier days, and once he muttered as he stumbled on, ‘ ‘ Oh, Olga, Olga! How your kisses bum! ”

He thought he had whispered, but the words burst out in a rasping croak and a gush of blood from a half-cooked lung followed and hissed upon the chain.

Nerves have their limits. They can be strained to a certain point, but beyond that they refuse to func¬ tion, which in a way is merciful. So it was with the man. The breakingpoint had been reached and passed, and his suffering was no longer so intense.

Dying on his charred stumps of feet, he hobbled amid the coils of clanking metal that flowed relentless¬ ly down like a slow thread of lava trickling over the lip of the pit. Occasionally the chain swung in an unexpected direction and laid a fiery tentacle across his shoulders, searing anew an earlier bum; or again he heard, through the drumming stutter of the heated blood in his pounding head, the hiss and sharp puff of steam as a white-hot link accidentally pressed against his naked side.

But though he winced and cried out at every motion he was compelled to take, it was more because the cringing seemed by then to be the proper thing, necessary and a part of

the torment, than because of any new agony that he experienced.

He had nearly ceased to think. Now and then, while he reeled and staggered over the loosely shifting heaps that illuminated the pit with a ruddy light, a groan of relief hissed through his baked lips as the dull brain told the craekling body that the end must be very near.

Once he thought he heard a cry far away and not repeated. The voice seemed familiar; it was, in fact, the yell of the maniac who was dancing around the rim of the pit, perilously near but wary of his own trap and shrieking down curves at his enemy.

Only the one sound had pierced to the seat of memory, but it was enough to cause the man to hope again. Per¬ haps Franz, the merciless, had re¬ lented !

He summoned his lagging energies and tried to speak, but the sound that issued from his throat was only a gurgle. Again he tried; it was agony even to breathe; a harsh inarticulate croak, in which were only fragments of words, was the only result, and his deafened ears refused to carry the answer.

Hope died and a more bitter despair took its place. The reaction produced an even keener torture, if such were possible. It was almost as though a lost soul who knew himself to be in the deepest chamber of hell felt the floor drop from beneath him and precipitate him still farther down.

He struggled on beneath the iron flails, through a misty haze of smoke, a fog of sooty vapor from his own smoldering body, a stench hanging around him not merely of burned flesh, but, even more repulsive, the repugnant odor of charred bone; and the demon above forgot to yell in his wonder that life could linger so long in such a mutilated being.

And still the dead man walked and stumbled, mechanically complaining

THE CHAIN


in inhuman querulous moans, glaring straight ahead, though his eyeballs were seared over with the heat.

The horror could not long continue. Inevitably the moment came when he could not avoid the moving pillar of shining metal.

Blind, hands stretched before him, feeling his way forward, one hand and arm passed by the chain and the other arm upon its. other side. Just before his face touched the glowing link he realized his mistake, but not in time to dodge the blow, and the link covered his face like a brand.

For a second, he was conscious of a terrible withering heat, an intoler¬ able piercing glare that beat into his brain like jagged arrows—and then, reason fled. With it passed any sense of pain, and a numbness that felt chill in that place of Are, stole around his heart like a earess.

He crept aimlessly for a few feet on hands and knees, stiffened, rolled upon his side and placed his bleeding head upon his charred arm quite naturally as though he had laid him down to sleep upon soft grasses in¬ stead of a bed of fire. Yet so indom¬ itable is the will to live that still one fingerless hand dabbed feebly at the chain for a space, although his brain was dead within him.

And, no longer swaying but descending evenly, the chain dropped upon him, and buried him from sight.

U p THROUGH the interstices of the glowing heap of metal, thick smoke seeped, black and heavy, drift¬ ing lazily in the currents of heat that danced in the pit.

The chain cooled and shrank, con¬ tracting with now and then a jangle of links slipping into new positions, and a hollow commenced to take place upon its surface.

And as the smoke diminished from this trough, coffinlike in shape, gor¬ geous colors shimmered along the hollow, melting into new forms and shades like' the rainbow hues of oil on water—crimson and green and blue.

High overhead—beside the roaring furnaee—the low nervous tittering of a madman!

Then in the myriad cells of watersoaked rock the steam expanded until the pressure was irresistible. A rending shock, and a crack, jagged and growing wider, crept up the walls. The castle quivered to its highest spire.

Still the madman tittered his me¬ chanical laugh.

Then the walls caved in, the fur¬ nace dropped into the abyss like a live coal falling from a grate, and the ceiling fell.


[THE END]

============================================================
THE LEGEND OF ST. JULIAN..
by Gustave Flaubert
============================================================
The Castle of Rutzau would no longer menace the peasants in the valley. It and the pit of torment were no more.

The Legend of St Julian the Hospitable *

By GUSTAVE FLAUBERT

I N A castle on a sloping hill, in the midst of a forest, dwelt Julian’s father and mother.

The four towers at its comers had pointed roofs, which were covered with leaden tiles, and the base of the walls rested on foundations of rock which descended abruptly to the bot¬ tom of the moat.

In the courtyards the pavements were as spotless as the flagged floor of a church. Long spouts, represent¬ ing dragons with heads downward, conveyed the rain-water in the direc¬ tion of the cistern; and on the win¬ dow-sills on every floor of the castle, in pots of painted clay, were sweet basil or heliotrope.

Another enclosure, surrounded by stakes, comprised an orchard, a gar¬ den, where flowers were arranged so as to form figures, a trellis, with arbors, where the fresh air might be enjoyed, and a mall, which provided amusement for the pages. On the other side were the kennels, stables, bakery, wine-press, and bams. A meadow surrounded the whole, itself enclosed by a stout fence.

There had been peace for so long that the portcullis was never lowered;

the moats were full of water; swal¬ lows built their nests in the crevices of the battlements; and when the sun was too hot the archer who paced back and forth on the curtain all day long returned to the watch-tower and slept without fear.

Inside, the ironwork gleamed every¬ where ; in the bedrooms, tapestry hangings kept out the cold, the closets overflowed with linen, the casks of wine were plentiful in the cellars, the oaken chests groaned beneath the weight of bags of money.

In the armory, between standards and heads of wild beasts, could be seen arms of all ages and of all na¬ tions, from the slings of the Amalekites and the javelins of the Garamantes, to the eutlases of the Sara¬ cens and the coats of mail of the Normans.

The main spit in the kitchen was large enough to hold an ox; the chap¬ el was as magnificent as a king’s oratory. There was even a Roman bath, in a convenient comer; but the good seigneur was not partial to it, considering it to be a heathenish custom.

* Translated from the French.

THE LEGEND OF ST. JULIAN


Always wrapped in a cloak of foxes’ skins, he walked about his do¬ main, did justly by his vassals, settled the disputes of his neighbors. During the winter he watched the snowflakes fall, and listened to the reading of histories. But when the first fine days came he would ride his mule along the narrow roads, past the ripening grain, and chat with the peasants, to whom he gave advice. After many adventures he had taken to wife a maiden of high lineage.

She was very fair, rather serious, and disposed to be haughty. The horns of her cap reached the tops of the doors; the train of her dress hung far behind her. She governed her household by rules, as if it were a cloister; each morning she allotted the servants their tasks, overlooked the making of preserves and oint¬ ments, sat at the spinning-wheel, or embroidered altar-cloths. After she had prayed much, God gave her a son.

Then there w r ere great rejoicings, and a banquet that lasted three days and four nights, with illuminations and the music of harps. There were the rarest of spices to eat, with chickens as large as sheep; by way of entertainment a dwarf came forth from a pie; and when the bowls were too few—for the crowd grew greater and greater—they were compelled to drink from hunting-horns and hel¬ mets.

The new mother was not present at these festivities. She stayed in her bed, resting quietly. One eve¬ ning she woke and thought she saw beneath a moonbeam that shone in at the window something like a moving shadow. It appeared to be an old man in a sackcloth coat, with a rosary at his side, a wallet over his shoulder, and looking like a hermit. Drawing near her pillow he said, without un¬ closing his lips:

“Rejoice, O mother! for thy son shall be a saint!”

She was about to cry out; but, glid¬

ing along the moonbeam, the old man rose slowly into the air and vanished. The banqueters’ songs rang out more loudly. She heard angels’ voices, and her head rested back upon her pillow, above which hung a martyr’s bone in a frame of carbuncles.

The following morning the serv¬ ants, being questioned, declared that they had seen no hermit. Dream or reality, it must have been a message from Heaven; but she was careful to say nothing of it, fearing she might be accused of pride.

The guests left at dawn, and Ju¬ lian’s father was standing at the gate, whither he had escorted the last, when suddenly a beggar appeared before him in the mist. He was a Bohemian, with plaited beard, with silver rings on his arms, and burning eyes. He mumbled with a half-inspired air these rambling words:

“Ha! ha! your son! much blood! great glory! always fortunate! an emperor’s family!”

And stooping to pick up the alms thrown him, he disappeared in the grass.

The worthy lord looked from right to left and called as loudly as he could. But there was no answer! The wind blew; the morning mist faded away.

He ascribed this vision to the wear¬ iness of his brain from having slept too little. “If I mention it, they will laugh at me, ” he said to himself. But the grandeur that was prophesied for his son dazzled him, although the promise was not clear, and he even doubted that he had heard it.

T he couple kept their secrets hid¬ den from each other. But both dearly loved the child; and thinking of him as one marked of God, they were very careful of his person. His cradle was lined with the finest down; a lamp shaped like a dove burned above it always. Three nurses rocked him night and day, and, lightly



wrapped in his swaddling-clothes, with his rosy face and blue eyes, in his brocade mantle and cap laden with pearls, he looked like a little Jesus. His teeth grew without caus¬ ing him a single tear.

When he reached seven years his mother taught him to sing. To make him courageous, his father set him upon a great horse. The child smiled with joy and soon knew everything concerning war-horses.

A very ancient and learned monk instructed him in Holy Writ, the Arabic numeration, the Latin letters, and how to make tiny pictures on vel¬ lum. They worked together at the top of a tower, away from all noise.

When the lesson was at an end, they would go down into the garden, where, walking slowly along, they studied the flowers.

Sometimes they saw, passing through the valley, a line of beasts of burden, driven by a man on foot dressed after the Eastern fashion. The lord of the estate, recognizing him as a merchant, would send a serv¬ ant to him. The stranger, taking confidence, would turn aside from his road, and, being welcomed into the castle hall, would take from his chest pieces of silk and velvet, goldsmithry, aromatic herbs and strange things of uses unknown in those parts; and, at last, the good man would go his way, unmolested, and with a handsome profit. At other times a company of pilgrims would knock at the gate. Their rain-soaked garments would be dried before the fire; and when their hunger was satisfied, they would tell of their travels; the wanderings of the ships over the foam-flecked sea, the journeys on foot through burning sands, the ferocity of the pagans, the caverns of Syria, the Manger and the Sepulcher. Then they would present the young heir with shells from their cloaks.

Often the lord of the manor feasted his former comrades in arms. Over

the drinks they recalled their battles, the assaults on strongholds, with the crashing of the machines and the shocking wounds. Julian, who lis¬ tened to them, would cry aloud in ex¬ ultation ; then his father felt sure that one day he would be a conqueror. But in the evening, at the close of the Angelus, when he passed between the rows of poor who bent their heads be¬ fore him, he would take alms from his purse so modestly and with so noble an air, that his mother was sure -he was destined to be an archbishop in due time.

His seat in the chapel was between his parents; and however long the services might last, he remained kneel¬ ing on his prie-dieu, his cap on the floor and his hands clasped.

One day, during mass, he saw, as he raised his head, a little white mouse coming out from a hole in the wall. It ran along to the first step of the altar, and after turning twice or thrice to right and left, fled whence it came. On the next Sunday, the thought that he might see it again disturbed him. It returned; and each Sunday he awaited it, was annoyed by it, and at last was seized with such a hatred for it that he determined to rid himself of it.

Having closed the door and strewn the crumbs of a cake on the steps, he placed himself in front of the hole with a stick in his hand.

After a very long time a pink nose appeared, followed by the whole mouse. He struck a light blow and stood thunderstruck before the little body, which was so still. A drop of blood stained the flagstone. He wiped is quickly away with his sleeve, threw the mouse out, and never said a word about it to anybody.

All kinds of little birds picked at the seeds in the garden. It occurred to him to put peas in a hollow reed. When he heard chirping in a tree, he would cautiously draw near, raise his tube, and puffing out his cheeks, blow

THE LEGEND OF ST. JULIAN


the peas at the young birds. When the little creatures would rain down on his shoulders in numbers he could not help laughing, happy in his mis¬ chief.

One morning, as he was returning across the curtain, he saw on the crest of the rampart a fat pigeon pluming himself in the sun. Julian stopped to look at him; there was a breach in the wall at that spot, and a piece of stone lay ready to his hand. He raised his arm, and the stone struck the bird, which fell from the rock into the moat.

He sprang to the bottom of the moat, tearing himself in the under¬ brush, searching everywhere, more eager than a young dog.

The pigeon, with broken wings, fluttered in the branches of a privet.

Its persistence in living irritated the child. He set about strangling it; and the bird’s writhings caused his heart to beat fast, filling it with a savage and overpowering delight. At the last struggle the boy felt that his senses were leaving him.

That night, during supper, his father declared that at his age he should learn how to hunt; and he went to fetch an old book of manu¬ script, containing, in the form of questions and answers, all the art of th6 hunting-field. In it a teacher ex¬ plained to an imaginary pupil how to train dogs, tame falcons, set snares; how the stag might be recognized by his droppings, the fox and wolf by their footprints; and the proper way to discover their tracks, how to start them, where their lairs are usually to be found, what winds are the most favorable; with a list of the cries and the rules of the quarry.

When Julian could recite all these things by heart, his father gave him a pack of dogs.

There were twenty-four savage greyhounds, swifter than gazelles, but not to be relied on in the matter of temper; then seventeen couples of

Breton dogs, red, with white spots, absolutely faithful, strong-chested, and great howlers.. For attacking the wild boar, and for dangerous redoub¬ lings, there were forty boar-hounds, hairy as bears. Mastiffs from Tar¬ tary, almost as tall as donkeys, flamecolored, with broad backs and straight legs, were to be used for the chase of the wild bull. The black coats of the spaniels gleamed like satin; the yelping of the talbots equaled the singing of the beagles. In an enclosure by themselves, pull¬ ing at their chains, and rolling their eyes, growled eight alan dogs, formid¬ able beasts, that leaped at the throats of horsemen, and had no fear of lions.

All ate wheaten bread, drank from stone troughs, and answered to highsounding names.

The falconry, perhaps, surpassed the pack; the master, by expending much money, had obtained tercelets from the Caucasus, sakers from Baby¬ lon, gerfalcons from Germany, and peregrines, captured oh the cliffs of distant lands, by the shores of the frozen seas. They lived in a thatchcovered shed, and, chained to the perch in order of height, they had before them a heap of turf on which from time to time they were allowed to take exercise.

Purse-nets, hooks, caltrops, and all kinds of snares were got ready.

Often they took into the country oysel dogs, who would point almost immediately. Then huntsmen, creep¬ ing forward step by step, cautiously stretched over their motionless bodies an enormous net. A word of com¬ mand caused the dogs to bark; quail flew up; and the ladies of the neigh¬ borhood, invited to the sport with their husbands, children, and servants —would pounce upon them, and easily capture them.

At other times, the hares would be started by the beating of a drum; foxes fell into ditches; or a springtrap, being released, would catch a wolf by the foot.



But Julian despised such unsports¬ manlike artifices; he preferred to hunt, with his horse and his falcon, far from the crowd. The bird was almost always a large snow-white Scythian tartaret. His leather hood was surmounted by a plume, gold bells quivered on his blue feet, and he stood ereet on his master’s arm as they galloped on horseback across the fields. Julian, untying his jesses, would suddenly let him fly; the bold creature would rise straight in the air like an arrow; and one might see two dots of unequal size whirl about, come together, then disappear in the azure heights. Then the falcon would -de¬ scend, rending some bird, and take his place on his master’s gauntlet, with quivering wings.

Thus Julian hunted the heron, the kite, the crow, and the vulture.

He loved to sound the huntinghorn, and follow his dogs as they ran along the slopes of the hills, leaped the brooks, and ascended toward the woods; and when the stag began to groan beneath their teeth, he would quickly kill him, and then gloat over the fury of the mastiffs as they de¬ voured the pieces.

On foggy days, he hid himself in the marshes, to watch for geese, ot¬ ters, and wild duck.

Three equerries awaited him at daybreak at the foot of the steps; and the old monk, leaning from his round window, would try in vain to call him back; Julian would not return. He cared not for the burning sun, the rain, or the tempest; he drank spring-water from his hand, ate wild berries as he rode, rested beneath an oak if he were fatigued, and returned in the middle of the night, covered with blood and mire, with thorns in his hair, and reeking of the odor of wild beasts. He was becoming like them. When his mother embraced him, he received her affection coldly, seeming to muse upon profound things.

He killed bears with a knife, bulls with an ax, boars with a spear; and one time, having nothing but a stick, defended himself against wolves which were devouring dead bodies at the foot of a gibbet.

O ne winter momirig, he left home before dawn, well fitted out, with a crossbow over his shoulder and a quiver of arrows at his saddle-bow.

His Danish jennet, followed by two beagles, could be heard evenly gallop¬ ing along. Icicles hung from his cloak; a strong wind was blowing. In one direction the horizon began to grow light; and in the white glow of the morning he saw some rabbits leap¬ ing about at the mouths of their war¬ rens. The two dogs rushed upon them, and in a moment rapidly broke their backs.

Soon he came to a wood. A heathcock, benumbed by the cold, was hanging, with its head under its wing, at the end of a branch. Julian, with a backward blow of his sword, cut off its two claws, and went his way with¬ out stopping to pick it up.

Three hours later he found himself on the peak of a mountain so high that the sky appeared almost black. Right in front of him a cliff sloped down like a long wall, overhanging an abyss; and on the extreme edge two wild deer were standing. As he had not his arrows (for his horse had remained behind), he determined tc climb down to them; with bare feet and doubled-up back, he at last reached the first of the bucks, and buried a dagger in his side. The other animal, terror-stricken, leaped into the abyss.. Julian, rushing forward to strike him, slipped, falling upon the body of the first one, his face over the precipiee and his arms stretched out.

Having descended again into the plain, he followed a river bordered by willows. Cranes flying low passed over his head from time to time. JuTHE LEGEND OF ST. JULIAN


lian killed them with his whip, and never missed one.

Meanwhile the frost had melted, bands of vapor were floating: in the air, and the sun appeared. Gleaming in the distance he saw a stagnant lake, which looked like lead. In the middle of the lake was a beast which Julian did not recognize, a beaver with a blaek muzzle. Despite the dis¬ tance, an arrow brought him down; and Julian was disappointed because he could not earry away the skin.

Then he made his way along an avenue of tall trees, whose tops formed a sort of triumphal arch, at the entrance to a forest. A kid bounded out of the thicket, a deer ap¬ peared at a cross-road, a badger came out of his hole, a peacock spread his tail on the grass; and when he had slain them all, other kids appeared, Other deer, other badgers, other pea¬ cocks, and blackbirds, jays, polecats, porcupines, lynxes, an endless multi¬ tude of beasts, increasing in number every moment. They walked about his feet, trembling, with glances full of meekness and appeal. But Julian did not weary of killing—as he stretched his crossbow, unsheathed his sword, thrust with his cntlas, eaeh in turn—he had no thought for any¬ thing else. He knew he had been hunting in some region or other, for an indefinite time, simply by reason of his own existence, doing every¬ thing with the ease that one experi¬ ences in a dream. Suddenly an ex¬ traordinary spectacle attracted his at¬ tention. Stags filled a valley beneath, which was shaped like a circus; they crowded together, close to one an¬ other, warming one another with their breaths, which rose like smoke in the mist.

The anticipation of such carnage suffocated him with joy for several minutes. Then he dismounted, turned back his sleeves, and began to fire. At the whistling of the first ar¬ row, all the* stags turned their heads

together. They huddled in a mass; plaintive voices arose, and there was great agitation in the herd.

The slope of the valley was too steep for them to cross. They rah about in the enclosure, trying to es¬ cape. Julian continued aiming and firing; and the arrows fell as fast as the drops of a shower of rain. The stags, driven frantic, fought with one another; and their bodies with their mingling antlers made a huge mound, which tumbled to pieces as they changed their position.

At last they were all dead, stretched on the sand, foaming at the nostrils, entrails protruding, and the heaving of their bellies subsiding by degrees. Then everything was still.

Night drew near; and behind the forest, through the spaces between the branches, the sky was as red as a sheet of blood.

Julian leaned against a tree. »He gazed with staring eyes at the extent of the slaughter, unable to understand how he had been able to accomplish it.

On the other side of the valley, at the edge of the forest, stood a stag, a doe, and her fawn.

The stag,' which was blaek and un¬ usually tall, bore sixteen antlers and had a white beard. The doe, as light of color as dead leaves, was nibbling the grass; and the spotted fawn, drag¬ ging along beside her, tugged at her teats.

Once more the crossbow twanged. The fawn dropped instantly. There¬ upon its mother, looking up at file sky, brayed in a deep, heartrending, almost human voice. Julian, exasper¬ ated, stretched her on the ground with an arrow sunk fair in the chest.

The huge stag caught sight of him, and gave a leap. Julian discharged his last arrow at him; it struck him in the forehead and remained planted there.

The great stag seemed not to feel it; leaping over the dead bodies, he came steadily forward, seemed about


to leap upon him and rip him open; and Julian retreated in terror. The monstrous beast stopped, and with flaming eyes, as solemn as a patriarch and a judge, repeated three times, while a bell tolled in the distance:

“Accursed! accursed! accursed! Some day, savage soul, thou shalt murder thy father and thy mother! ’ ’ Bending his knees, and slowly dosing his eyes, he died.

J ulian was dazed, then over¬ whelmed by sudden weariness. A feeling of immense disgust and sad¬ ness swept over him. With his head in his hands he wept for a long time.

His horse had wandered away ; his dogs had abandoned him; the solitude which enveloped him seemed to threaten unknown perils. Impelled by terror, he bent his steps across the country, chose a path at random, and found himself almost immediately at the gate of the castle.

That night he could not sleep. Be¬ neath the flickering light of the hang¬ ing lamps, he saw always a vision of the great black stag. Its prophecy haunted him; he struggled against it. “No! no! no! I can not kill them!” Then he thought: “But if I should desire to?” and he feared that the devil might implant the desire within him.

For three months, his anxious mother prayed at his bedside in agony, and his father, groaning bit¬ terly, paced the corridor from morn¬ ing till night. He summoned the most famous physicians, who ordered quantities of medicine. Julian’s dis¬ ease, they said, was caused by a bale¬ ful wind or a desire for love. But the young man, to all their questions, only shook his head.

After a while his strength returned, and he was able to walk in the court¬ yard, the old monk and his father each holding an arm.

When he was fully recovered, he refused to hunt.

His father, thinking to please him, made him a present of a long Saracen sword. It was hung on the top of a pillar, in a tall stand of arms. To reach it, a ladder was necessary. One day Julian mounted it, but the sword was too heavy and slipped from his fingers, and in falling, grazed his father and cut his coat; Julian, think¬ ing he had killed his father, fainted.

From that time he had a dread of weapons. The sight of a bare sword made him turn pale, and this weak¬ ness was a source of great distress to his family.

At last the old monk, in the name of God, of honor, and of his ances¬ tors, ordered him to resume the sports of a gentleman.

The equerries amused themselves every day with the javelins. Julian very soon excelled at that sport. He sent his javelin into the necks of bot¬ tles, broke the teeth of the weather¬ cocks, struck the nails in the doors at a hundred paces.

One summer evening, at the hour when dusk makes things indistinct, he was in the arbor in the garden, and fancied he spied at the far end two white wings fluttering at the top of the espalier. Never doubting but that it must be a stork, he hurled his javelin.

A heartrending scream rang out.

It was his mother, whose cap with its long streamers the javelin had nailed against the wall.

Julian fled from the castle and never returned there again.


H e cast his lot in with a band of adventurers who happened to be passing.

He experienced what it was to suf¬ fer thirst, hunger, illness, and ver¬ min. He became used to the noise of battle, and to the sight of the dying. The wind bronzed his skin. His limbs became hardened |?y the con¬ stant wearing of armor; and, as he

THE LEGEND OF ST. JULIAN


was strong, fearless, temperate, and shrewd, he soon obtained the com¬ mand of a company.

At the outset of a battle he would inspire his soldiers with a mighty wave of his sword. "With a knotted cord he would climb the walls of cita¬ dels at night, swayed by the storm, while sparks of Greek fire clung to his cuirass, and the boiling pitch and melted lead flowed in streams from the battlements. Sometimes a blow from a stone would break his shield. Bridges too heavily weighted with men gave way beneath him. With a twirl of his mace he rid himself of fourteen horsemen. Once in single combat he defied all those who came forward. More than twenty times it was thought he must be killed.

Thanks to the divine eare, however, he always escaped; for he was kind to orphans, widows, and particularly to old men. When he saw one walking before him, he would call to him to show his face, as if he were afraid of killing him by mistake.

Fleeing slaves, rebellious peasants, all sorts of dauntless men assembled beneath his flag, and out of these he organized an army which increased in size and became so famous that his aid was often sought.

At different times he succored the Dauphin of France and the King of England, the Templars of Jerusalem, the Surena of the Parthians, the Ne¬ gus of Abyssinia, and the Emperor of Calient. He fought Scandinavians covered with fish scales, negroes armed with round shields of hippo¬ potamus-hide and mounted upon little donkeys, gold-colored Indians, who brandished above their heads shining sabers. He conquered the trog¬ lodytes and the anthropophagi. He traversed regions so hot that the burning rays of the sun set fire to the hair; and other countries so cold that the arms fell away from the body; and yet other countries where there

was so much fog that one seemed to be surrounded by phantoms.

Republics in trouble sought his ad¬ vice. At interviews of ambassadors he obtained unhoped-for concessions. If a monarch behaved unreasonably, he would suddenly arrive and re¬ prove him. He set nations free. He rescued queens confined in towers. It was he, and no- other, who killed the serpent of Milan and the dragon of Oberbirbach.

Now, the Emperor of Occitania, having triumphed over the Spanish Mussulmans, had taken as his concu¬ bine the sister of the Calif of Cor¬ dova; and he had by her a daughter whom he had brought up in the Chris¬ tian belief. But the ealif, on the pre¬ tense of desiring to be converted, came to pay him a visit, attended by a numerous escort; he massacred all his garrison, and confined him in an underground dungeon, where he treated him harshly in order that he might obtain his treasures from him.

Julian hastened to his relief, be¬ sieged the city, killed the calif, out off his head, and hurled it like a eannonball over the fortifications. He then rescued tie emperor from prison, and restored him to his throne in the presence of his whole court.

The emperor, wishing to reward such a service, offered him mueh money in baskets. Julian would not accept it. Thinking that he was not satisfied with the amount, he offered him three-fourths of his wealth; after a second refusal, he asked him to share his kingdom ; Julian declined with thanks. The emperor was weep¬ ing with vexation, at a loss how to manifest his gratitude, when sud¬ denly he struck his forehead and said a word in the ear of a courtier; the eurtains of tapestry parted, and in a few moments a maiden entered.

Her great blaek eyes gleamed like soft lamps. A charming smile was on her lips. The curls of her hair were



entangled in the jewels of her partly open bodice; and beneath her trans¬ parent tunic could be partly seen the youthful beauty of her body. She was plump and small, with a slender waist.

Julian was dazzled with her beauty, especially as he had alw r ays led a chaste life.

So he took the emperor’s daughter in marriage, receiving a castle which had been bequeathed to her by her mother; and the wedding festivities being at an end, he left with his bride, after many courtesies on both sides.

The castle was of white marble, built in the Moorish fashion, and sit¬ uated on a promontory, in a forest of orange trees. Terraces of flowers de¬ scended to the shores of a bay, where pink shells crackled under the feet. Behind the castle stretched a forest shaped like a fan. The sky was al¬ ways blue, and the trees w r ere swayed by the sea-breeze and the wind blow¬ ing in from the mountains which closed the horizon in the distance.

The rooms were lighted as if by twilight through incrustations on the walls. Tall pillars, slender as reeds, upheld the arches of the cupolas, dec¬ orated with reliefs in imitation of the stalactites in caverns.

There were fountains in the rooms, mosaic pavements in the courtyard, festooned partitions, many dainty bits of architecture, and everywhere there was such absolute silence that the rustling of a scarf or the echo of a sigh could be distinctly heard.

J ulian no longer went to war. He rested, surrounded by a peaceful people; and each day his people passed before him with genuflexions and hand-kissings in the Eastern fashion.

Clad in gorgeous raiment, he would gaze out of a window, recalling his triumphs of former days; and he would have been glad to ride over the desert after gazelles and ostriches, to

lie hidden amid the reeds on the watch for leopards, to pass through forests filled with rhinoceroses, to climb to the peaks of the most inac¬ cessible mountains in order to obtain a better aim at the eagles, and to fight the polar bears, on the ice-floes of the northern sea.

Sometimes in dreams he fancied himself like Adam in the midst of Paradise, surrounded by all kinds of animals; by merely stretching out his arms he could kill them; or else they passed before him, two by two, in or¬ der of size, from the elephants and lions to the ermines and wild ducks, as on the day when they entered Noah’s Ark. From the darkness of the cavern he hurled unerring arrows at them; then others appeared; there was no end; and he would awake, glaring savagely about him.

Princes who were his friends in¬ vited him to hunt. He always re¬ fused, hoping, by that sort of pen¬ ance, to avert his evil fate; for it seemed to him that upon the slaugh¬ ter of animals the fate of his parents depended. But he suffered at not being able to see them, and his other longing became almost unendurable.

His wife, to divert him, sent for jugglers and dancing girls to come to the castle.

She traveled with him, in an open litter, through the country; at other times, reclining in a shallop, they watched the fishes gambol about in the water, which was as transparent as the air; often she threw flowers in his face; seated at his feet, she would play upon a mandolin with three strings; then, placing her clasped hands upon his shoulder, would in¬ quire in a trembling voice: “What aileth thee, my dear lord?”

He would make no reply, or would burst into sobs; but at last, one day, he confessed his terrible fear.

She combated it, reasoning very forcibly: his father and mother were probably dead, or if ever he should

THE LEGEND OF ST. JULIAN


see them again, by what chance, to what purpose, would he perpetrate such an abomination? Therefore, his fear was causeless, and he ought to hunt again.

Julian smiled as he listened to her, but could not determine to gratify her wish.

O ne evening in the month of Au¬ gust, they were in their sleepingapartment; she had retired and he was kneeling in prayer, when he heard the yelping of a fox, then foot¬ steps under the window; looking out he thought he saw in the darkness what seemed to be the ghosts of ani¬ mals. The temptation was too strong. He took down his quiver.

His wife expressed surprize.

“I do it to obey thee,” he said; “at sunrise I shall return.”

However, she dreaded some misad¬ venture.

He reassured her, then went forth, wondering at the inconstancy of her moods.

Not long after his departure, a page appeared and announced that two strangers requested to see her lady¬ ship at once, their lord being absent.

Soon an old man and an old woman entered the room, with bent figures, covered with dust, clad in coarse gar¬ ments, and each leaning on a stick. Taking courage, they declared that they brought Julian news of his parents.

She leaned from her bed to hear them. But after glancing at each other, they asked her if he still loved them, and if he often spoke of them. “Oh! yes!” she said.

Then they cried: “Well! We are his parents!” And they sat down, being wearied and fatigued.

But there was nothing to prove to the lady that her husband was 'their son. They convinced her by describ¬ ing certain peculiar marks which he bad on his body. She jumped out of

bed, called a page, and had food set before them.

Although they were very hungry, they could scarcely eat; and she fur¬ tively watched the trembling of their bony hands as they raised their goblets.

They asked a hundred questions about Julian. She answered them all, but was careful to say nothing about the ghastly idea that concerned them.

They told her how, when he failed to return home, they had left their castle; wandering about for several 'years, following vague clues, without losing hope. It had required so much money to pay toll, to cross the rivers, and to live in inns, so much for the privileges of princes and the exac¬ tions of thieves, that their purse was empty and they were forced to beg. But what did it matter, since they wuuld soon embrace their son? They extolled his good fortune in having so sweet a wife, and did not tire of gazing upon her and kissing her.

The gorgeousness of the apartment surprized them greatly; and the old man, having examined the walls, asked why the arms of the Emperor of Occitania hung there.

She replied: “ He is my father. ’ ’

Thereupon he started, recalling the prediction of the Bohemian, while the old woman thought of the words of the hermit. Doubtless the glory of her son was but the dawn of eternal splendor; and both sat, openmouthed, beneath the radiance of the candles which lighted the table.

They had both been very handsome in their youth. The mother still had all her hair, which surrounded her cheeks in smooth bands of snowy whiteness; and the father, with his tall figure and his long beard, re¬ sembled a carved image.

The wife urged them not to wait up for Julian. She herself placed them in her own bed, then closed the window. They fell asleep. The day564


light appeared dimly, and outside the window the little birds began to sing.

I n the meantime Julian had crossed the park, and was striding through the forest with a nervous step, enjoying the elasticity of the turf and the softness of the air.

The shadows of the trees fell across the grass. Here and there the moon¬ light made white patches in the clear¬ ing, and he feared to go forward, thinking that he saw a sheet of water, or else the placid surface of the ponds blended with the color of the grass. Everywhere a profound gilence reigned; none of the beasts were vis¬ ible which a few minutes before had been prowling about the castle.

The forest grew more dense as he advanced, and the darkness became impenetrable. Puffs of hot wind reached him, full of enervating odors. He buried his feet in the dead leaves, and leaned against an oak to rest a moment.

Suddenly, from behind his back, sprang a blacker mass, a wild boar. Julian had not time to seize his bow, and he grieved over it as a dire ca¬ lamity.

Then, having left the forest, he saw a wolf slinking along a hedge.

Julian discharged an arrow at him. The wolf stopped, turned his head to look at him, and went on. He trotted along, keeping always at the same dis¬ tance, stopping from time to time, and, as soon as he was aimed at, con¬ tinuing his flight.

In this way he crossed an intermi¬ nable plain, then hills of sand, and found himself at last upon a plateau overlooking a vast extent of country. Flat stones were scattered about among ruined caverns. He stum¬ bled over dead men’s bones; and here and there, worm-eaten crosses stood desolate. Strange shapes moved about in the vague shadow of the tombs; hyenas appeared, wild-eyed and panting. They came toward him,

and smelt of him, grinning so that they showed their gums. He pulled out his sword, but they darted away at once in all directions, disappearing with their rapid, limping gallop, be¬ neath a cloud of dust.

An hour later he encountered in a ravine a savage bull. With lowered horns, he was digging up the sand with his hoofs. Julian struck him with his lance between his dewlaps. The lance broke as if the animal had been of bronze; he closed his eyes, expecting death. When he opened them the bull had disappeared.

Thereupon he was overcome with shame. A mightier power controlled his strength; and he turned back into the forest, and set out for home. The woods were choked by creeping plants; and he was cutting at them with his sword, when a marten sud¬ denly darted between his legs, a pan¬ ther leaped over his shoulder, a ser¬ pent wound its way around an ash tree. Among its branches was a mon¬ strous jackdaw that stared at Julian; and here and there appeared a vast number of great sparks, as if the firmament had caused all its stars to rain down into the forest. They were the eyes of animals: wildcats, squir¬ rels, owls, parrots, and monkeys.

Julian discharged his arrows at them; but the, feathered weapons rested on the leaves like white but¬ terflies. Then he threw stones at them, but they fell to the ground without touching anything. He cursed, uttered imprecations, was suf¬ focated with rage and tried to injure himself.

Then all the animals that he had hunted reappeared, enclosing him within a narrow circle. Some were seated on their haunches, others standing at their full height. He re¬ mained in the midst of them, rigid with terror, unable to move. With a supreme effort of will, he stepped for¬ ward; those which were perching in the trees opened their wings; those on

THE LEGEND OF ST. JULIAN


the ground moved their limbs; and all went with him.

The hyenas walked ahead of him, the wolf and the wild boar behind. The bull tossed his head at his right, and at his left the serpent glided through the grass; while the panther, arching his back, strode forward with long, velvety strides. Julian walked as slowly as possible in order not to irritate them; while emerging from the dense forest he saw porcupines, foxes, jackals, bears, and vipers.

He began to run; they ran with him. The serpent hissed, the putrid beasts foamed at the mouth. The wild boar touched his heels with his tusks; the wolf rubbed his snout against the palm of his hands. The monkeys pinched him, making hor¬ rible grimaces; the marten rolled across his feet. A bear struck off his hat with a blow of his paw, and the panther scornfully dropped an ar¬ row that she was carrying in her mouth.

Their sly maneuvers were instinct with irony. While watching him from the corners of their eyes, they seemed to be planning a scheme of vengeance; and deafened as he was by the buzzing of the insects, beaten by the tails of the birds, suffocated by the breaths of the animals, he walked on with outstretched arms and closed eyes, like a blind man, not hav- 'ing even the strength to cry for mercy.

The crowing of a cock penetrated the air. Others answered; it was day¬ break; and he recognized above the orange trees the roof of his home.

Then, on the outskirts of a field, he saw some red partridges fluttering amid the stubble. He unbuckled his cloak and threw it over them like -a net. When he raised it, he found but a single bird, and that had been dead a long while and was already decayed.

This disappointment e? asperated him beyond control. His thirst for

carnage seized him once more; lack¬ ing beasts, he desired to slaughter men.

He climbed the three terraces, and burst open the door with a blow of his fist; but at the foot of the stair¬ case the memory of his dear wife softened his heart. She was sleeping, no doubt, and he would go up and ‘surprize her.

Having removed his sandals, he turned the handle softly and entered/

The stained glass of the window dimmed the pale light of dawn. Ju¬ lian stumbled over clothes upon the floor; a little farther on, he collided with a table on which were dishes.

‘ ‘ Doubtless she has eaten, ’ ’ he said to himself; and he walked toward the bed, which was indistinct in the dark¬ ness at the end of the room. When he reached it, intending to kiss his wife, he leaned over the pillow upon which lay the two heads, one beside the other. Then he felt against his lips the toueh of a man’s beard.

He retreated, thinking that he had gone mad; but he returned to the bed, and with his fingers, feeling about, came in contact with hair which was very long. To convince himself of his mistake he slowly passed his hand over the pillow. But now he was sure it was a beard, and a man! A man in bed beside his wife!

With an outburst of ungovernable fury, he leaped upon them with his dagger, stamping and fuming, roar¬ ing like a wild beast. Then he ceased. The dead, pierced to the heart, had not even stirred. He listened atten¬ tively to the two almost uniform death-rattles, and as they grew faint¬ er and fainter, another breath, in the distance, seemed to continue them. Indistinct at first, that plaintive, long-drawn voice approached nearer, grew louder, became heartrending, and, terrified beyond measure, he rec¬ ognized the braying o ’ the great black stag.



As he turned, he fancied that he saw in the doorway the ghost of his wife, with a light in her hand.

The tumult of the murder had awakened her. With one glance she realized everything, and, flying from the room in horror, dropped her torch.

He picked it up.

His father and mother were before »him, stretched on their backs, each having a gaping wound in the breast; and their faces, majestic in their gentleness, seemed to guard some eternal secret.. Splashes and pools of blood were on their white flesh, on the bedclothes, on the floor and on an ivory Christ hanging in the alcove. The scarlet reflection of the stained glass, just then lit up by the sun, showed up those red spots and scattered others throughout the room. Julian walked toward the corpses, saying to himself, striving to believe, that it was not possible, that he was mistaken, that one sometimes finds in¬ comprehensible resemblances. Finally he stooped to look at the old man more closely, and he saw between his partly closed eyelids a dead eye, which scorched him like fire. Then he went to the other side of the bed, to the other body, whose white hair partly concealed the face. Julian passed his fingers under the hair, raised the head, and gazed at it, hold¬ ing it at the end of his stiffened arm, while with the other hand he raised the torch. Drops of blood, soaking through the mattress, fell one by one to the floor.

At the close of the day he appeared before his wife, and in a changed voice he bade her, first of all, not to answer him, not to approach him, nor even to look at him, and to follow, un¬ der pain of damnation, all his orders, which were irrevocable.

The obsequi is were to be carried out in accordance with the instruc¬ tions which he had left in writing, on a prie-dietf in the death-chamber. He

gave to her his palace, his vassals, all his property, not even retaining the clothes that he was wearing, and his sandals, which she would find at the top of the stairs.

She had obeyed the will of God by making his crime possible, and there¬ fore it was her duty to pray for his soul, since thenceforth he ceased to exist.

The old people were buried mag¬ nificently in the chapel of a monas¬ tery three days’ journey from the castle. A monk with lowered hood followed the procession, far from all the rest, and no one dared to speak to him.

During the mass, he lay prostrate in the center of the doorway, with his arms stretched out ljke a crucifix, and his face in the dust.

After the burial, he was seen to take the road leading to the moun¬ tains. He turned his head to look back several times, and at last dis¬ appeared.


L eaving the country, he begged his daily bread from place to place. He held forth his hand to horse¬ men on the roads, humbly accosted the harvest-makers, or stood motion¬ less by the gates of courtyards; and his face was so sad that no one ever refused him alms.

As a penance, he would tell his story to all; then they would fly from him, making the sign of the cross. In villages through which he had once passed, as soon as he was recognized, the people closed their doors, shrieked threats at him, and threw stones. The more charitable placed a bowl on the window-sill, then closed the shutters in order that they might not see him.

Shunned everywhere, he avoided mankind; and fed himself on roots, plants, tainted fruit, and shell-fish, which he found along the shore. Sometimes at an angle of the coast

THE LEGEND OF ST. JULIAN


he perceived a medley of crowded roofs, with stone, weathercocks, bridges, towers, and a network of dark streets from which rose to his ears a ceaseless humming. The long¬ ing to have a share in the life of men tempted him to go down into the town. But the bestial expression of the faces, the tumult of the different trades, the indifference of men’s speech froze his blood. On holidays, when the bells of the cathedral rang at dawn and roused the spirits of the people, he watched them come forth from their houses; the dances on the public squares, the fountains of beer at the street corners, the damask dra¬ peries in front of the abodes of princes; and when night had come, he would gaze through the windows at the long family tables where grand¬ fathers held little children on their knees; then sobs suffocated him and he returned to the fields.

He contemplated with yearnings of love the colts playing in the grass, the birds in their nests, the insects on the flowers; at his approach one and all fled, concealing themselves in fright, or flew r rapidly away.

He sought solitude. But the wind sounded in his ears like a death-rat¬ tle ; the dew falling to the ground re¬ called to his mind other, heavier tear¬ drops. The sun every evening suf¬ fused the clouds with blood, and every night, in his dreams, he relived his parricide..

He made himself a haircloth shirt, with iron spikes. He ascended on his knees every hill whieh had a chapel at the top. But that pitiless thought spoiled the splendor of tabernacles, and tortured him despite the agony of his penance.

He did not rebel against God, who had inflicted that deed upon him, and yet he was desperate at the thought that he had been capable of commit¬ ting it

He had such a horror of his own person that he plunged recklessly

into dangers. He saved paralytics from fire, children from deep ravines. But the abyss spumed him, the flames would have none of him.

Time did not allay his suffering. It became intolerable. He determined to die..

One day as he leaned over a lake to judge the depth of the water, he saw on the opposite side a fleshless old man, with a white beard, and of so piteous an aspect that it moved him to tears. The old man also wept. Without recognizing him, Julian re¬ membered vaguely a face resembling his. He uttered a cry; it was his father; and from that day he ceased to think of killing himself.

Thus, bearing the burden of his memory, he traveled through many countries, and he reached a stream, which it was perilous to cross because of its violence and because of the large tract of miry ground along its banks. For many years no one had dared to attempt it.

An old boat, buried at the stem, raised its bow among the reeds. Ju¬ lian, on examining it, discovered a pair of oars, and the idea came to him of dedicating his life to the service of others.

He began by constructing on the shore a sort of roadway making it possible to reach the stream; and he broke his nails moving huge stones, which he held against his breast, slip¬ ping in the mire, sinking in it, and nearly perishing more than once.

Then he repaired the boat with driftwood, and built himself a hovel with clay and trunks of trees.

When it became known that cross¬ ing was possible, travelers appeared. They called him from the other shore by waving flags, and Julian would row over. The boat was very heavy, and they overloaded it with all sorts of baggage and freight, to say noth¬ ing of the beasts of burden, which added to the confusion by their ter¬ rified plunging. He made no charge



for his labor; some gave him scraps of food which they took from their wallets, or worn-out clothes which they no longer wanted. Brutal men cursed him. Julian gently reproved them and they retorted with insults. He contented himself by blessing them.

A small table, a stool, a bed of dead leaves, and three clay cups con¬ stituted his furniture. Two holes in the wall served the purpose of win¬ dows. On one side arid plains stretched as far as the eye could see, with stagnant ponds here and there; and before his door rolled the green¬ ish waves of the river. In the spring the damp earth gave forth an odor of corruption. Then a violent wind would raise eddies of dust, which en¬ tered everywhere, muddied the water, made the mouth gritty. A little later there were clouds of mosquitoes, whose buzzing and stinging continued day and night. Then came bitter frosts, which gave to everything the rigidity of stone, and aroused a fran¬ tic craving for meat.

During months Julian did not see a living soul. Often he closed his eyes, trying to recall his youthful days; and the courtyard of a castle would appear to him, with grey¬ hounds on the porch, footmen in the armory, and beneath an arbor of vines, a fair-haired youth between an old man wrapped in furs and a lady with a huge cap; then of a sudden, the two corpses would appear before him. He would throw himself face down¬ ward on his bed, and exclaim, weep¬ ing : “ Oh! my poor father! my poor mother!” And he would fall into a comatose state, in which the fearful visions continued.

O ne night, when he was asleep, he thought he heard someone call him. He listened intently and could hear only the moaning of the waves.

Presently the same voice repeated: “Julian!”

It came from the opposite shore, which seemed to him most strange, in view of the breadth of the river.

A third time came the call: “Ju¬ lian ! ’ ’ And that loud voice sounded like the ring of a church bell.

Having lighted his lantern, he came out of the hut. A fierce teinpest raged. The darkness was profound, here and there broken by the foamy tops of the surging waves.

After a moment’s hesitation* Julian cast off the cable. Instantly the water became smooth, the boat glided across and reached the other bank, where a man was waiting.

He was wrapped in a tattered cloak, his faee was like a mask of plas¬ ter, and his eyes gleamed redder than coals. When he raised the lantern to his face, Julian saw that it was cov¬ ered with a hideous leprosy; and yet there was in his attitude a kingly majesty.

When he entered the boat, it sank deep into the water, borne down by his weight; a wave brought it to the surface again and Julian began to row.

At every stroke of the oars, the surf raised the bow. The water, blacker than ink, raced madly on both sides. It dug abysses, it reared mountains, and the frail bark rose upon them, then plunged down into the depths, where it whirled about, tossed to and fro by the tempest.

Julian bent his body, stretched his arms, and, bracing himself with his feet, threw himself back with a sud¬ den wrench of his frame, in order to gain greater strength. The hail stung his hands, the rain poured down his back, the fierce gusts of wind took his breath away. He stopped, and im¬ mediately the boat was carried to lee¬ ward. But realizing that he had in hand a matter of importance, an or¬ der which must be obeyed, he bent Iq his oars once more, and the rattling

7 Out of 10 Are Prospects I

If You Sell VE-PO-AD The New Vest Pocket Adding Machine

B mmm mmi

‘SpS n —

msm



of the thole-pins mingled with the howling of the tempest.

The little lantern burned before him. At intervals birds flying by concealed it. .But he could always see the eyes of the leper, who stood at the stern, motionless as a statue.

And the journey lasted a long, long time.

When they entered the hut, Julian closed the door, and the man fell on the stool. The sort of shroud which had covered him fell to his hips; and his shoulders, his breast, his thin arms, were covered by a multitude of scaly pustules. Im¬ mense wrinkles plowed his fore¬ head. Like- a skeleton, he had a hole in the place of his nose, and his bluish lips gave forth a breath as thick as mist, and nauseating.

“I am hungry!” he said.

Julian gave him all that he had, an old piece of pork and a crust of blaek bread.

After he had devoured these, the table, the plate, and the knife-hilt bore the same marks that covered his body.

Then he said: “lam thirsty! * *

Julian went to fetch his pitcher, and as he took it up, there came from it an aroma which delighted his heart and filled his nostrils. It was wine! What a find! But the leper put out his hand, and emptied the pitcher at a draft.

Then he said: “I am cold!”

Julian, with his candle, lighted a bunch of dried heather in the middle of the cabin.

The leper drew near to warm him¬ self ; and cowering before it, he trem¬ bled in every limb, and sank to the floor; his eyes no longer gleamed, his ulcers began to burst, and in an al¬ most inaudible voice, he murmured: “Thy bed!”

Julian gently helped him over to it, and stretched the sail of his boat to cover him.

The leper groaned, the corners of his mouth drooped and disclosed his teeth; his breast rose and fell with the quickening of his rattling breath, and his belly sank to his spine with every breath that he drew.

Presently he closed his eyes.

“My bones are like ice! Come and lay thyself beside me!”

And Julian, raising the Sail,, lay down upon the dead leaves, close be¬ side him.

The leper turned his head.

“Undress thyself, so that I may have the warmth of thy body!”

Julian removed his clothes; then, as naked as the day he was born, he took his place again in the bed; and he felt against his flesh the skin of the leper, colder than a serpent and rough as a file.

He tried to hearten him; and the other replied, panting for breath: “Ah! I am dying! Come nearer, and warm me! Not with thy hands! no! with thy whole body!”

Julian stretched himself upon the leper, mouth to mouth, breast to breast..

Then the leper drew him close, and his eyes suddenly shone with the bril¬ liancy of stars; his hair grew long like the rays of the sun; the breath' of his nostrils was as the perfume of roses; a cloud of incense rose from the hearth, and the waves of the river sang. Meanwhile, an ecstasy, a su¬ perhuman joy descended like a flood into the soul of the enraptured Ju¬ lian; and he whose arms were about him grew and grew in stature, until his head and his feet touched the op¬ posite walls of the cabin. The roof disappeared, making visible the heavens; and Julian ascended toward the blue expanse, face to face with our Lord Jesus, who bore him upward to Heaven.

This is the story of Saint Julian the Hospitable, as it may be found written on the stained-glass windows of a church in my birthplace.





Unique Fiction

except in the pages of Weird Tales can you find such superb sto¬ ries of the bizarre, the grotesque and the terrible—fascinating tales that

N .

grip the imagination and send shivers of apprehension up the spine—tales that take one from the humdrum, matter-of-fact world into a deathless realm of fancy —tales so thrillingly told that they seem very real. This magazine prints the best contemporary weird fiction in the world. If Poe were alive he would un¬ doubtedly be a contributor to Weird Tales. In addition to creepy mystery stories, ghost-tales, stories of devil-worship, witchcraft, vampires and strange monsters, this magazine also prints the cream of the weird-scientific fiction that is written today—tales of the spaces between the worlds, surgical stories, and stories that look into the future with the eye of prophecy. Among the amazing tales in the next fe\t issues will be:

THE SKELETON UNDER THE LAMP, by Bassett Morgan

Here is a truly weird story- . ' ' ' ' ’ ’

of unspeakable orgies that t< under the Lamp.

THE DEVIL’S MARTYR, by Signe Toksvig

A strange medieval tale of witchcraft and devil-worship—of flagellations and a weird cult dedicated to Satan—of an unrepeutant sinner and the headsman's ax.

THE LURKING FEAR, by H. P. Lovecraft

An eery tale of creeping horror—frightful death and eldritch terror wrought panic among the dwellers in that corner of the Catskill Mountains.

THE SERPENT WOMAN, by Seabury Quinn

The little French ghost-breaker. Jules de Grandin, encounters a strange mystery involving a lost child and a giant snake—and back of the mystery

THE SPACE-EATERS, by Frank Belknap Long, Jr.

One of the eeriest and most shuddery of all weird stories— a tale of a tremendous menace that closes in upon the earth from outside our solar system—a powerful story of strange horror and uncanny terror, that will make your flesh creep as you read it.

THE DIMENSION TERROR, by Edmond Hamilton

A frightful catastrophe overtakes the Earth, millions of lives are wiped out, and annihilation of the human race is threatened by an invasion from the Fifth Dimension.

THREE COFFINS, by Arthur J. Burks

The author of "Strange Tales From Santo Domingo" returns to the West Indies as the scene of the eeriest, creepiest and most fascinating tale of shuddery horror he has yet written.

T HESE are but a few of the many super-excellent stories in store for the readers of Weird Tales. To make sure of getting your copy each month, and thus avoid the embarrassment of finding your favorite news stand sold out, just fill out the coupon below and let us send it right to your home. That’s the safest way.

WEIRD TALES,

460 E. Ohio St„

Chicago, Ill.

J



The Eyrie

(Continued f rom page 438)

the doings of de Grandin. His latest in the February issue was good, but he might have devoted more description to the tortures undergone by the victim and raised a few more goose bumps on the reader.”

“I have long been a reader of Weird Tales and it suits me to a ‘TV’ writes Don C. Hilsinger, of St. Louis, Michigan. “I get very tired of the common line of love stories with the usual line of mush. I like something to stimulate my imagination, and I have found it in Weird Tales.”

“You have started the New Year with the best issue yet,” writes Lester Anderson, of Hayward, California. “Why? Well, the authors tell the tale: Ray Cummings, Eli Colter, Edmond Hamilton, John Martin Leahy, and I must add Seabury Quinn. His are the only stories of the supernatural that I really enjoy. You ask why? Such a foolish question for one so big! Why, on account of Jules de Grandin, of course!”

Z. D. Graham, of Philadelphia, writes to The Eyrie: “I would like to suggest that you make Weird Tales a weekly, because I can hardly wait for a whole month to pass between issues. I find I get almost as much pleasure out of reading The Eyrie as I do the stories. It makes it so interesting to know what all these other people think of the same stories. ’ ’

Readers, what is your favorite story in this issue? Your favorite in the February issue, as shown by your votes, is The Call of Cthulhu, by H. P. Lovecraft. Second and third places go to The Ghost Table, by Elliot O’Donnell, and Mephistopheles and Co., Ltd., by Seabury Quinn.

MY FAVORITE STORIES IN THE APRIL WEIRD TALES ARE:

Story Remarks

( 1 ).

( 2 ).

(3).

I do not like the following stories:

(1) __ Why? _

( 2 ) - -

iIt will help us to know what kind of 1 Reader’s name and address:

stories you want in Weird Tales if you •

will fill out this coupon and mail it to *-----

The Eyrie, Weird Tales, 450 E. Ohio St., I ___

Chicago, Ill. I



The Magic of Chac-Mool

(Continued from page 480)

clean climbing turn, but in a series of zooms, with a sharp bank now and then. I had to hop the trees of the far bank the first time round, then I gave her the full gun and made ragged circles around the bar with only a. few hundred feet of altitude instead of a decent thousand or so. She hadn’t her usual pep, that was plain; and I grabbed the oil can and made a. few adjustments, analyzing the distinct components of her deep roar. My eyes on Sarazon ahead of me, I screamed at him to fix his safety belt, but he was hugging the gunwale and peering over so fixedly that I snatched a glance too.

There below us, at the edge of the jaguar trail, stood the Priest of AhPuch, dazzling in the sun against the dark greenery. He was looking up at us with arms outstretched.

I grinned down at the tiny helpless creature, leveled off, and then flew level—fairly level, you might say, for at once she began missing, and my 'grin was wiped off. She bucked along, losing headway, and it was then that Sarazon sprang to his feet and threw out his arms in a wild ges¬ ture back toward the figure far down behind us.

I swear it was a full minute before the motor ceased its thunder that he toppled out. And I’ll swear that be¬ fore he fell he was dead—for a ghastly blu£ tint seemed suddenly to suffuse his faee, and then he slumped. We were over the jungle as it hap¬ pened, and he vanished into the green like a diver into the sea. Then, as I gaped down, the motor went dead.

Frantically though I worked before she lost headway, there was nothing for it but to get back to the bar if I was lucky enough not to lose control entirely. So I dived, dived like a

New Secret Book Loaned to You

Reveals Rosicrucian Laws and Secret Teachings

Has Made Thousands Happy, Successful, and Mighty in the Control of Natural Laws.

Because this new book is so remarkable and difficult to secure, the Supreme Council of the Rosicrucians has decided to loan SEALED COPIES of it to sincere and worthy seekers who will promise to study it and help in the great work of promoting success and health in life. It is called ••Rosicrucian Illumination" and isf issued by the oldest mystical fraternity In the world. Just write and say that you will read it, study the wonderful laws and return it. Enclose two cents for actual postage, and it will be mailed. Address:

LIBRARIAN NO. 444, AMORC Rosicrucian Park San Jose, California

A stupendous A*, weird-sci¬ entific novel of Chinese in¬ trigue to gain control of the world!

Details on back cover of this issue

j Tb«M°°n^



Life’s Secrets!

OLD MONEY WANTED To? ™

dreds of Old or Odd Coins. Keep All Old Mon¬ ey, it may be very valuable. Send 10 cents for New Illustrated Coin Value Book, 4x6. Guaran¬ teed Prices. Get Posted. We pay cash.

CLARKE COIN CO., W. T. Dept., LeRcy, N. T.

BTANDAkS , LABOHATORffiiSuiy < |

agil(^S.velu„n„ m P 0i ,„„

TOBACCO

SCO,000 Meu and Women. Superba Co, NT-1T Balti “

MEN WANTING OUTDOOR WORK, QUALIFY

for forest ranger position. Start $125 month; cabin and vacation; patrol the forests, protect the game; give tourists information. Write Mokane, Dept. M-37, Denver, Colo.

MEN, GET FOREST RANGER JOB; $125-$200

mo. and home furnished; permanent, hunt, fish, trap. For details, write Norton, 266 Temple Court, Denver, Colo.

WE START YOU WITHOUT A DOLLAR. SOAPS,

Extracts, Perfumes, Toilet Goods. Experience unnecessary. Carnation Co., 2930, St. Louis, Mo.

TOBACCO OR SNUFF HABIT CURED OR NO pay! J1.50 if cured. Sent on trial! Willard Com¬ pany, Box 796, Los Angeles, Calif.

SONG POEM WRITERS WRITE HIBBELER,

D-1S6, 2104 N. Keystone Ave., Chicago.

vulture on its prey, till the wires howled in a mad crescendo. Then I checked sharply, took one dizzy bank round toward the bar and swooped along with only a foot or twb of alti¬ tude to try for a landing. . Just clearing the big trees again, I made it, a little bumpy, and lurched down along the bar to a full stop right be¬ fore the Priest of Ah-Puch.

His arms were lowered, now, and somehow I was glad of it. I had the oddest fpar that he would point that owl-headed baton at me. Idiotically I felt it had something to do with the blue blight that had stricken Sarazon. But as the High Priest stepped softly into the riffles of the ford and ap¬ proached the plane, I remembered my automatic, and grasped it stealthily. Then I remembered, too, that I had already shot this creature, and that it hadn’t seemed to take. I waited.

He came up to the plane and stood below me, and simply held out his hands, together, palms up. It was the attitude of the squat figures that held up Chac-Mool’s table, a posture to sustain a heavy weight.

I looked for a long moment at his gold mustachios, and then I bent down, got the gold bar at my feet, heaved it over the side, and gently lowered it into his hands.

Then suddenly I felt 'beaten, and lost, and lonely, and I thought of Cleaver and Sarazon, who had bought that gold for me with their lives, but whose lives that gold could not buy, back. My head fell for a second; when I looked up, the Priest of AhPuch had gone back into the jungle.

Then, incredibly, came the deepthroated normal roar of my motor, and the old crate was sizzling down the bar. Faster and faster she sped, till I had a bare second to lift her off the sands. She leaped into the air like a kid’s kite in a sudden squall, and I thundered away—away toward Belize, for that might as well be my next port o’ call.



The Jewel of Seven Stones

(Continued from page 466)

or else to die completely at the end of seven thousand years, Kaku the priest had firmly planted in her mind the thought that if the seven stones of that jewel were destroyed, her second life should also wane. The seven stones were to her a constant re¬ minder of the fate which overshad¬ owed her like—like, by example, the string you tie about your finger to re¬ mind you to buy fresh razor-blades or tooth-powder next time you go past the drug store.” He grinned delightedly at his homely example.

“But how could Kaku know when Peligia had been awakened, and how could he come back to fight for her?” I demanded.

“Kaku, my friend, is dead,” he re¬ plied seriously, “but like your own Monsieur John Brown, his soul goes— or, at least, went—marching on. And because it was not a good soul, but one which dwelt within its body in constant companionship with the ugly thought of jealousy, it was not per¬ mitted to continue its journey to¬ ward perfection, but was chained to the earth it had aforetime walked. Always in Kaku’s consciousness, even after he had ceased to possess a body, was the thought of his unrequited love for Peligia and the fear that she should be awakened from her trance by a man whom she would love. Not more swiftly does the fireman respond to the alarm than did the restless, earthbound spirit of Kaku answer the knowledge that Peligia had returned to consciousness. In the guise of a cat he came at first, for cats were fa¬ miliar things in old Egypt. Again, in the form of a crocodile he did all but kill the young Bennett and his bride as they motored to dine with us. Once more—and how he did it we do not know—he appeared and set fire

SECRETS MYSTERIES

The world'* most amazing Encyclopedia of Curious Secrets or "The Silent Friend. Mar¬ riage Guide & Medical Adviser" is a gold mine of money-saving, money-making se¬ crets; manufacturing and beauty formula*; home remedies; household recipes; farmer* and trappers' secrets; exposes gamblers' se¬ crets; the $50,00 0 secret; many ways to wealth; guide for lovers; exposes ancient and magic, tricks, conjuring; futility of charms, seals, i; mysteries of Forbidden Qbala; occult arts; anillng; flea circus; hundreds of spell-binding secrets, tig pictures, etc., FOR ADULTS ONLY. Only 99 . Send cash, stamps or M. O. or pay C. O. D.

Educator Press, F

I., Dept. A-104

What Do You Want?

Whatever it is we can help you get it. Juit give us the chance' by writing for

“Clouds Dispelled ”

Absolutely Free. You will be delighted. A«t today! Write NOW!!

THE BROTHERHOOD OF LIGHT

Dept. O, Bos 1525, Los Angeles, Calif.

FOREST RANGERS

MEN, get Forest Ranger job; $125-$200 mo. and home furnished: permanent; hunt, fish, trap. For details, write Norton. 2660 Temple Court. Denver, Colo.

AMAZING BOOKS,

Brio Brighteyes,” “Allai. .»_, _

‘King Solomon's Mines,” “Colonel Quar- ‘Cleopatra”—25c each, all by H. Rider ' f books (15c to 40c only).

Box 661, Lawrence, Mass.

rice,

Haggard. Catalog

^Sllck Ace Cards, $1.25; Factory Readers, $1.00. Sales Boards, etc. Catalog 10c. CENTRAL NOVELTY COMPANY,

740 W. Madison St.. Chicago, Ill.

INVENTIONS COMMERCIALIZED. PATented or Unpatented. Write Adam Fisher Mfg. Co.. 651 Enright, St. Louie, Mo.



Next Month

The Bat-Men of Thorium

By BERTRAM RUSSELL

W hat would human beings evolve into if they were shut away for countless thousands of years in a sub¬ terranean cavern, hidden from the blessed light of the sun and surrounded by sav¬ age beasts and wild, lurking dangers?

H ebe is a fascinating weird-scientific story about a strange subterranean land, with action and thrilling adventure enough to satisfy the most exacting reader.

A tale of a giant submarine that is drawn down in the vortex of a huge maelstrom in mid-ocean; then gripped by a gigantic octopus—and then the strange land of Thorium, set on an island in the midst of a vast under¬ ground lake, in a colossal cavern under the bed of the ocean. The strange, start¬ ling adventures, the dangers encountered there, the devastating fires, the desperate struggles, the weird, wild beauty of that white land, and the barbaric civilization of its inhabitants—all these constitute a tale of fascination and exciting inter¬ est. This three-part serial will begin in the

May issue of


On Sale April 1

Clip and Mail this Coupon Today!

Chicago, III.

Enclosed find {1 for special five months subscription to "Weird Tales" to begin with the May issue C$1.25 in Canada). Special offer void unless remittance is accompanied by coupon.

Name ___

City______ State

to their house, and all but encom¬ passed her death when he caused the rope to part as Peligia escaped the flames.

‘ ‘ This night he came to call her by strength of will from out her fleshly body to join his wandering spirit, but —thanks be to God!—we thwarted him by the use of so simple a thing as a length of iron wire, from which his spirit, earthbound as it was, did shrink. ’ ’

“But see here,” I persisted, “do you mean to tell me Kaku will never return to plague Peligia and Ells¬ worth again ? ’ ’

“Yes,” he said, with an elfish grin, “I think I may truthfully say that Kaku will never again return. Parbleu, this night the iron literally entered into his soul!

“You saw me contend with him; you saw him vanish like the shadows of night before the rising sun. Draw your own happy conclusions. Mean¬ time”—he reached for the shining green bottle in which the cognac glowed with a ruby iridescence—“to your very good health, my friend, and the equally good health of Monsieur and Madame Bennett.”

“The

Serpent Woman”

by SEABURY QUINN

(( Another fascinating adventure of the little French ghostbreaker, Jules de Grandin, will ap¬ pear in WEIRD TALES very soon.

I WATCH TOR IT 1

Beautifully bound in rich

orange-colored jacket.

“KWO”

The answer is thrillingly told in one of the most startling stories ever written

Who Was The Mysterious

THE

DICTATOR

OF

DESTINY!

W E have been swamped with letters from our readers requesting us to reprint THE MOON TERROR, by A. G. Birch. This story appeared as a serial in the early issues of Weird Tales and is too long for us to republish in our magazine con¬ sistent with our policy. As a matter of service to the multitude of readers who have requested us to reprint this story, we have had it printed in cloth-bound book form to sell at the publishers’ pride of $1.25 per copy.

Crammed With Action

This novel narrates the sensational attempt of a group of Chinese scientists to obtain rulership of the world by a tremendous threat against the very existence of the earth. The diabolical methods by which they put their scheme into execution, the frantic race across the ocean to circumvent them, the weird and exciting adventures that befell, make one of the most gripping and fascinating novels ever written.

weird-scientific stories that appeared in early issues of Weird Tales:

OOZE, by Anthony M. Rud, tells of a biologist who removed the growth limitations from an amoeba, and the amazing catastrophe that ensued.

PENELOPE, by Vincent Starrett, is a fas¬ cinating tale of the star Penelope, and the fantastic thing that happened when the star was in perihelion.

AN ADVENTURE IN THE FOURTH DIMENSION, by Farnsworth Wright, is an uproarious skit on the four-dimensional theories of the mathematicians, and inter¬ planetary stories in general.

A Superb Book

Send your order for this book now. Hand¬ somely bound, with attractive colored jacket.

Note: This book for sale from the pub¬ lishers only. It can not be purchased in any book store.

And Other Stories

In addition to this full-length novel, we are also including in this book three shorter stories by well-known authors — thrilling

Weird Tales Book Dept. M-3,

450 East Ohio St., Chicago, Illinois.

Enclosed find $1.25 for cloth-bound copy of THE MOON TERROR at publishers' price.

Name

WEIRD TALES, Book Dept. M-3

450 East Ohio St. Chicago, Illinios

Addr

| City

State

[THE END]
