============================================================
Weird Tales
Volume 28, Number 3
Date: October 1936
============================================================
============================================================
TABLE OF CONTENTS

  1. "Verse, a tribute to the late Robert E" by Howard
  2. "The Opener of the Way ." by Robert Bloch
============================================================
============================================================
VERSE, A TRIBUTE TO THE LATE ROBERT E
by Howard
============================================================
still searched for him. Wearily he set out across the circle of havoc toward the nearest shelter whidi Illar offered. The dust rose in ghostly, moonlit clouds under his feet.

Nails

By ROBERT E. HOWARD

One of the strangest stories ever umtten — the tale of a barbarian adventurer, a woman pirate, and a weird roofed city inhabited by the most peculiar race of men ever spawned

The Story Thus Far

CONAN the Cimmerian, and Valeria, a woman pirate, having deserted from a mercenary army on the Stygian-Darfar border, came, after many days’ flight, to a vast forest far to the sooth. There their horses were slain and devoured by a dragon, which Conan managed to kill with a poisoned spear. In a plain surrounded by the forest, they came t^n a fantastic city called Xuchotl, a series of halls and chambers built all under one roof, floored with a lambent red stale and illuminated by means of skylights and green fire-jewels. At first it appeared to be deserted, but later they discovered it to be inhabited by a tribe of mongrel Stygians called Tlazitlans, who were divided into rival clans known as Tecuhltli and Xotalancas.

Valeria saved the life of a Tecuhltli named Techotl, and with him they fled to the castle of Tecuhltli near the western gate of the city, pursued by the Xotalancas, who dwelt by the eastern gate. Tecuhltli was ruled over by Prince Olmec and Princess Tascela, who displayed a sinister interest in Valeria, Olmec told the adventurers that half a century ago a tribe of Tlazitlans had fled southward from the Stygians, and fought their way through the dragon-haunted forest and found the city, then occupied by a degenerate race which had once been powerful magicians. The Tlazitlans had destroyed

them and settled in the city, ruled by the brothers Tecuhltli and Xotalanc, and by an evil ancient named Tolkemec.

A quarrel over a woman had split the tribe into three clans, of which that of Tolkemec had been utterly destroyed twelve years before, Tolkemec escaping, supposedly dying, from the dungeon where he was thrown. Fear of the dragons in the forest kept the people imprisoned in the city, while the feud reduced the tribe to a handful on each side.

Red nails driven in an ebon column denoted the number of Xotalancas slain in the feud. Olmec persuaded Conan and Valeria to remain and fight for his clan as mercenaries. They were shown to separate chambers, and Valeria awoke during the night to find Yasala, Tascela’s maid, trying to drug her with the blade locus. She tried to make the girl explain her actions, but Yasala, fleeing from her, ran down a stair leading to the catacombs beneath the city, into which old Tolkemec had dragged his broken body twelve years before. Valeria heard her scream down in the darkness, and heard an inhuman, high-pitched tittering. Returning to her chamber she secured her garments and weapons, meaning to urge Conan to join her in flight from the city she had begun to fear. But just as she started for his chamber she heard a sudden clamor of yells and the clash of swords.

The story continues:

RED NAOS


5, Twenty Red Nails

T 'J 70 warriors lounged in the guardroom on the floor known as the Tier of the Eagle. Their attitude was casual, though habitually alert. An attack on the great bronze door from without was always a possibility, but for many years no such assault had been attempted on either side.

"'Ihe strangers are strong allies,” said one. "Olmec will move against the enemy tomorrow, I believe.”

He spoke as a soldier in a war might

have spoken. In the miniature world of Xuchotl each handful of feudists was an army, and the empty halls between the castles was the country over which they campaigned.

The other meditated for a space.

"Suppose with their aid we destroy Xotalanc,” he said. "What then, Xatmec?”

"Why,” returned Xatmec, "we will drive red nails for them all. The captives we will bum and flay and quarter.”

"But afterward?” pursued the other. "After we have slain them all? Will it

08 he shifted he horied the knfte.**



not seem strange, to have no foes to fight? All my life I have fought and hated the Xotalancas. With the feud ended, what is left?"

Xatmec shrugged his shoulders. His thoughts had never gone beyond the destruction of their foes. They oiuld not go beyond that.

Suddenly both men stiffened at a noise outside the door.

"To the door, Xatmec!" hissed the last s{^aker. "I shall look through the Eye ”

Xatmec, sword in hand, leaned against the brcHize door, straining his ear to hear through the metal. His mate looked into the mirror. He started convulsively. Men were clustered thickly outside the door; grim, dark-faced men with swords gripped in their teeth — and their fingers thrust into their ears. One who wore a feathered head-dress had a set of pipes which he set to his lips, and even as the Tecuhltli started to shout a warning, the pipes began to skirl.

TTje cry died in the guard's throat as the thin, weird piping penetrated the metal door and smote on his ears. Xatmec leaned frozen against the door, as if paralyzed in that position. His face was that of a wooden image, his expression one of horrified listening. The other guard, farther removed from the source of the sound, yet sensed the horror of what was taking place, the grisly threat that lay in that demoniac fifing. He felt the weird strains plucking like unseen fingers at the tissues of his brain, filling him with alien emotions and impulses of madness. But with a soul-tearing effort he broke the spell, and shrieked a warning in a voice he did not recognize as his own.

But even as he cried out, the music changed to an unbearable shrilling ffiat was like a knife in the ear-drums. Xatmec saeamed in sudden agony, and all the

sanity went out of his face like a flame blown out in a wind. Like a madman he ripped loose the chain, tore open the door and rushed out into the hall, sword lifted before his mate could stop him. A dozen blades struck him down, and over his mangled body the Xotalancas surged into the guardroom, with a long-drawn, blood-mad yell that sent the unwonted echoes reverberating.

His brain reeling from the shock of it all, the remaining guard leaped to meet them with goring spear. The horror of the sorcery he had just witnessed was submerged in the stunning realization that the enemy were in Tecuhltli. And as his spearhead ripped through a daricskinned belly he knew no more, for t swinging sword crushed his skull, even as wild-eyed warriors came pouring in from the chambers behind the guardroom.

It was the yelling of men and the clanging of steel that brought Conan bounding from his couch, wide awake and broadsword in hand. In an instant he had reached the door and flung it open, and was glaring out into the corridor just as Techotl rushed up it, eyes blazing madly.

"The Xotalancas!" he screamed, in a voice hardly human. "They are within the door!’*

Conan ran down the corridor, even as Valeria emerged from her chamber.

"What the devil is it?" she called.

“Techotl says the Xotalancas are in,"’ he answ’ered hurriedly. "That racket sounds like it."

WITH the Tecuhltli on their heels they burst into the throneroom and were confronted by a scene beyond the most frantic dream of blood and fury. Twenty men and women, their black hair streaming, and the white skulls gleaming on their breasts, were locked in combat with the people of Tecuhltli. The women W. T.— 5


m

on both sides fought as madly « the men, and already the room and the hall beyond were strewn with corpses.

Olmec, naked but for a breech-clout, was fighting before his throne, and as the adventurers entered, Tascela ran from an inner chamber with a sword in her hand.

Xatmec and his mate were dead, so there was none to tell the Tecuhitli how their foes had found their way into their citadel. Nor was there any to say what had prompted that mad attempt. But the losses of the Xotalancas had been greater, their position more desperate, than the Tecuhitli had known. The maiming of their scaly ally, the destruction of the Burning Skull, and the news, gasped by a dying man, that mysterious whiteskin allies had joined their enemies, had driven them to the frenzy of desperation and the wild determination to die dealing death to their ancient foes.

The Tecuhitli, recovering from the first stunning shock of the surprize that had swept them back into the throneroom and littered the floor with their corpses, fought back with an equally desperate fury, while the door-guards from the lower floors came racing to hurl themselves into the fray. It was the deathfight of rabid wolves, blind, panting, merciless. Back and forth it surged, from door to dais, blades whickering and striking into flesh, blood spurting, feet stamping the crimson floor where redder pools were forming. Ivory tables crashed over, seats were splintered, velvet hangings torn down were stained red. It was the bloody climax of a bloody half-century, and every man there sensed it.

But the conclusion was inevitable. The Tecuhitli outnumbered the invaders almost two to one, and they were heartened by that fact and by the entrance into the mel^ of their light-skinned allies.

These crashed into the fray with the devastating effect of a hurricane plowing T.— «

through a grove of saplings. In sheer strength no three TIazitlans were a match for G)nan, and in spite of his weight he was quicker on his feet than any of them. He moved through the whirling, eddying mass with the surety and destructiveness of a gray wolf amidst a pack of alley curs, and he strode over a wake of crumpled figures.

Valeria fought beside him, her lips smiling and her eyes blazing. She was stronger than the average man, and far quicker and more ferocious. Her sword was like a living thing in her hand. Where Conan beat down opposition by the sheer weight and power of his blows, breaking spears, splitting skulls and cleaving bosoms to the breastbone, Valeria brought into action a finesse of swordplay that dazzled and bewildered her antagonists before it slew them. Again and again a warrior, heaving high his heavy blade, foimd her point in his jugular before he could strike. Conan, towering above the field, strode through the welter smiting right and left, but Valeria moved like an illusive phantom, constantly shifting, and thrusting and slashing as she shifted. Swords missed her again and again as the wielders flailed the empty air and died with her point in their hearts or throats, and her mocking laughter in their ears.

Neither sex nor condition was considered by the maddened combatants. The five women of the Xotalancas were down with their throats cut before Conan and Valeria entered the fray, and when a man or woman went down under the stamping feet, there was always a knife ready for the helpless throat, or a sandaled foot eager to crush the prostrate skull.

From wall to wall, from door to door rolled the waves of combat, spilling over into adjoining diambers. And presently only Tecuhitli and their white-skinned allies stood upright in the great throne-

^IRD TALES

room. The survivors stared bleakly and blankly at each other, like survivors after Judgment Day or the destruction of the world. On legs wide-braced, hands gripping notched and dripping swords, blood trickling down their arms, they stared at one another across tfie mangled corpses of friends and foes. They had no breath left to shout, but a bestial mad howling rose from their lips. It was not a human cry of triumph. It was the howling of a rabid wolf-pack stalking among the bodies of its victims.

Conan caught Valeria’s arm and turned her about.

"You've got a stab in die calf of your leg," be growled.

She glanced down, for the first time aware of a stinging in the muscles of her leg. Some dying man on the fioor had fieshed his dagger with his last effort.

"You look like a butcher yourself,” she laughed.

He shook a red shower from his hands.

"Not mine. Ob, a scratch here and there. Nothing to bother about. But that calf ought to be bandaged.”

OLMEC came through die litter, looking like a ghoul with his naked massive shoulders splashed with blood, and his black beard dabbled in crimson. His eyes were red, like the reflection of flame on black water.

"We have won!” he croaked dazedly. "The feud is ended! The dogs of Xotalanc lie dead! Oh, for a captive to flay alive! Yet it is good to look upon their dead faces. Twenty dead dogs! Twenty red nails for the black column!”

"You’d best see to your wounded,” grunted Conan, turning away from him. "'Here, girl, let me see that leg.”

"Wait a minute!” she shook him off impatiently. The fire of fighting still burned brightly in her soul. "How do

we know these are all of them? These might have come on a raid of their own.”

"They would not split the clan on a foray like this,” said Olmec, shaking his head, and regaining some of his ordinary intelligence. Without his purple robe the man seemed less like a prince than some repellent beast of prey. "I will stake my head upon it that we have slain them all. There were less of them than I dreamed, and they must have been desperate. But how came they in Tecuhltli.>”

Tascela came forward, wiping her sword on her naked thigh, and holding in her other hand an object she had taken from the body of the feathered leader of the Xotalancas.

"The pipes of madness,” she said. "A warrior tells me that Xatmec opened the door to the Xotalancas and was cut down as they stormed into the guardroom. This warrior came to the guardroom from the inner hall just in rime to see it happen and to hear the last of a weird strain of music which froze his very soul. Tolkemec used to talk of these pipes, which the Xuchotlans swore were hidden somewhere in the catacombs with the bones of the ancient wizard who used them in his lifetime. Somehow the dogs of Xotalanc found them and learned their secret."

"Somebody ought to go to Xotalanc and see if any remain alive,” said Conan. "I’ll go if somebody will guide me.”

Olmec glanced at the remnants of his people. There were only twenty left alive, and of these several lay groaning on the floor. Tascela was the only one of the Tecuhltli who had escaped without a wound. The princess was untouched, though she had fought as savagely as any.

"Who will go with Conan to Xotalanc?” asked Olmec.

Techotl limped forward. The wound

RED NAOS

B39

in his thigh had started bleeding afresh, and he had another gash across his ribs.

"I will go!”

"No, you won’t,” vetoed Conan, "And you’re not going either, Valeria. In a little while that leg will be getting stiff.”

"I will go,” volunteered a warrior, who was knotting a bandage about a slashed forearm.

"Very well, Yanath. Go with the Cimmerian. And you, too, Topal.” Olmec indicated another man whose injuries were slight. "But first aid us to lift the badly wounded on these couches where we may bandage their hurts.”

This was done quickly. As they stooped to pick up a woman who had been stunned by a war-club, Olmec’s beard brushed Topal’s ear. Conan thought the prince muttered something to the warrior, but he could not be sure. A few moments later he was leading his companions down the hall.

Conan glanced back as he went out the door, at that shambles where the dead lay on the smoldering floor, blood-stained dark limbs knotted in attitudes of fierce muscular effort, dark faces frozen in masks of hate, glassy eyes glaring up at the green fire- jewels which bathed the ghastly scene in a dusky emerald witchlight. Among the dead the living moved aimlessly, like people moving in a trance. Conan heard Olmec call a woman and direct her to bandage Valeria’s leg. The pirate followed the woman into an adjoining chamber, already beginning to limp slightly.

WARILY the two Tecuhltli led Conan along the hall beyond the bronze door, and through chamber after chamber shimmering in the green fire. They saw no one, heard no sound. After they crossed the Great Hall which bisected the city from north to south, their caution was inaeased by the realization of their

nearness to enemy territory. But chambers and halls lay emf^ to their wary gaze, and they came at last along a broad dim hallway and halted before a bronze door similar to the Eagle Door of TecuhltlL Gingerly they tried it, and it opened silently under their fingers. Awed, they stared into the green-lit diambers beyond. For fifty years no Tecuhltli had entered those halls save as a prisoner going to a hideous doom. To go to Xotalanc had been the ultimate horror that could befall a man of the western castle. The terror of it had stalked through their dreams since earliest childhood. To Yanath and Topal diat bronze door w'as like the portal of hell.

'They cringed back, unreasoning horror in their eyes, and Conan pushed past them and strode into Xotalanc.

Timidly they followed him. As each man set foot over the threshold he stared and glared wildly about him. But only their quick, hurried breathing disturbed the silence.

They had come into a square guardroom, like that behind the Eagle Door of Tecuhltli, and, similarly, a hall ran away from it to a broad chamber chat was a counterpart of Olmec’s throneroom.

Conan glanced down the hall with its rugs and divans and hangings, and stood listening intently. He heard no noise, and the rooms had an empty feel. He did not believe there were any Xotalancas left alive in Xuchotl.

"Come on,” he muttered, and started down the hall.

He had not gone far when he was aware that only Yanath was following him. He wheeled back to see Topal standing in an attitude of horror, one arm out as if to fend off some threatening peril, his distended eyes fixed with hypnotic intensity on something protruding from behind a divan.

".What the devil?” Then Conan saw

m


what Topal was staring at, and he felt a faint twitching of the skin between his giant shoulders. A monstrous head protruded from behind the divan, a reptilian head, broad as the head of a crocodile, with down-curving fangs that projected over the lower jaw. But there was an unnatural limpness about the thing, and the hideous eyes were glazed.

- Conan peered behind the couch. It was a great serpent whidi lay there limp in death, but such a serpent as he had never seen in his wanderings. The reek and chill of the deep blati earth were about it, and ite color was an indeterminable hue which changed with each new angle from which he surveyed it. A great wound in the neck showed what had caused its death.

"It is the Crawler!" whispered Yanath.

"It’s the thing I slashed on the stair,” grunted Conan. "After it trailed us to the Eagle Door, it dragged itself here to die. How could the Xotalancas control such a brute?"

The Tecuhltli shivered and shook their heads.

"They brought it up from the black tunnels below the catacombs. They discovered secrets unknown to Tecuhltli.”

"Well, it’s dead, and if they’d had any more of them, they’d have brought them along when they came to Tecuhltli. Come on."

They crowded close at his heels as he strode down the hall and thrust on the silver-worked door at the other end.

"If we don’t find anybody on this floor," he said, "we’ll descend into the lower floors. We’ll explore Xotalanc from the roof to the catacombs. If Xotalanc is like Tecuhltli, all the rooms and halls in this tier will be lighted — what the devil!"

They had come into the broad thronediamber, so similar to that one in Tecuhltli. There were the same jade dais

and ivory seat, the same divans, mgs and hangings on the walls. No black, redscarred column stood behind the thronedais, but evidences of the grim feud were not lacking.

Ranged along the wall behind the dais were rows of glass-covered shelves. And on those shelves hundreds of human heads, perfectly preserved, stared at the startled watchers with emotionless eyes, as they had stared for only the gods knew how many months and years.

T opal muttered a curse, but Yanath stood silent, the mad light growing in his wide eyes. Conan frowned, knowing that Tlazitlan sanity was hung on a hair-trigger.

Suddenly Yanath pointed to the ghastly relics with a twitching finger.

"There is my brother’s head!" he murmured. "And there is my father's younger' brother! And there beyond them is my sister’s eldest son!"

Suddenly he began to weep, dry-eyed, with harsh, loud sobs that shook his frame. He did not take his eyes from the heads. His sobs grew shriller, changed to frightful, high-pitched laughter, and that in turn became an unbearable saeaming. Yanath was stark mad.

Conan laid a hand on his shoulder, and as if the touch had released all the frenzy in his soul, Yanath screamed and whirled, striking at the Cimmerian with his sword. Conan parried the blow, and Topal tried to catch Yanath’s arm. But the madman avoided him and with froth flying from his lips, he drove his sword deep into Topal's body. Topal sank down with a groan, and Yanath whirled for an instant like a crazy dervish; then he ran at flie shelves and began hacking at the glass with his sword, screeching blasphemously.

Conan sprang at him from behind, trying to catch him unaware and disarm him, but the madman wheeled and lunged at


341!

him, screaming like a lost soul. Realizing that the warrior was hopelessly insane, the Cimmerian side-stepped, and as the maniac went past, he swung a cut that severed the shoulder-bone and breast, and dropped the man dead beside his dying victim.

Conan bent over Topal, seeing that the man was at his last gasp. It was useless to seek to stanch the blood gushing from the horrible wound.

’’You’re done for, Topal,” grunted Conan. “Any word you want to send to your people?”

"Bend closer,” gasped Topal, and Conan complied — and an instant later caught the man’s wrist as Topal struck at his breast with a dagger.

"Crom!” swore Conan. "Are you mad, too?”

"Olmec ordered it!” gasped the dying man. "I know not why. As we lifted the •wounded upon the couches he whispered to me, bidding me to slay you as we returned to Tecuhltli ” And with the

name of his clan on his lips, Tc^al died.

Conan scowled down at him in puzzlement. This whole affair had an aspect of lunacy. Was Olmec mad, too? Were all the Tecuhltli madder than he had realized? With a shrug of his shoulders he strode down the hall and out of the bronze door, leaving the dead Tecuhltli lying before the staring dead eyes of their kinsmen’s heads.

Conan needed no guide back through the labyrinth they had traversed. His primitive instinct of direction led him unerringly along the route they had come. He traversed it as warily as he had before, his sword in his hand, and his eyes fiercely searching each shadowed nook and comer; for it was his former allies he feared now, not the ghosts of the slain Xotalancas.

He had crossed the Great Hall and entered the chambers b^ond when he heard

something moving ahead of him — something which gasped and panted, and moved with a strange, floundering, scrambling noise. A moment later Conan saw a man crawling over the flaming floor toward him — a man whose progress left a broad bloody smear on the smoldering surface. It was Techotl and his eyes were already glazing; from a deep gash in his breast blood gushed steadily between the fingers of his clutching hand. With the other he clawed and hitched himself along.

"Conan,” he cried chokingly, "Conan! Olmec has taken the yellow-haired woman!”

"So that’s why he told Topal to kiH me!” murmured Conan, dropping to his knee beside the man, who his experienced eye told him was dying. "Olmec isn’t so mad as I thought.”

Techotl’s groping fingers pludced at Conan’s arm. In the cold, loveless and altogether hideous life of the Tecuhltli his admiration and affection for the invaders from the outer world formed a warm, human oasis, constituted a tie that cormected him with a more natural humanity that was totally lacking in his fellows, whose only emotions were hate, lust and the urge of sadistic cruelty.

"I sought to oppose him,’* gurgled Techotl, blood bubbling frothily to his lips. "But he struck me down. He thought he had slain me, but I crawled away. Ah, Set, how far I have crawled in my own blood! Beware, Conan! Olmec may have set an ambush for your return! Slay Olmec! He is a beast. Take Valeria and flee! Fear not to traverse the forest. Olmec and Tascela lied about the dragons. They slew each other years ago, all save the strongest. For a dozen years there has been only one dragon. If you have slain him, there is naught in the forest to harm you. He was the god Olmec worshipped; and Olmec fed human sacri-.


?9mRD TALES

fices to him, the veiy old aod the very youn^ bound and hurled from the wall. Hasten! Olmec has taken Valeria to the

Chamber of the ”

His head slumped down and he was dead before it came to rest on die floor.

CONAN sprang up, his eyes like live coals. So that was Olmec’s game, having first used the strangers to destroy his foes! He should have known that somediing of the sort would be going on in that black-bearded degenerate’s mind.

The Cimmerian started toward Tecuhltli with reckless speed. Rapidly he redc« oned the numbers of his former allies. Only twenty-one, counting Olmec, had survived that fiendish battle in the throneroom. Three had died since, which left seventeen enemies with which to reckon. In his rage Conan felt capable of accounting for the whole clan single-handed.

But the innate craft of the w'ilderness rose to guide his berserk rage. He remembered Techotl's warning of an ambush. It was quite probable that the prince would make such provisions, on the chauce that Topal might have failed to carry out his order. Olmec would be expecting him to return by the same route he had followed in going to Xotalanc.

Conan glanced up at a skylight under which he was passing and caught the blurred glimmer of stars. They had not yet be^in to pale for dawn. The events of the night had been crowdai into a comparatively short space of time.

He turned aside from his direct course and descended a winding staircase to the floor below. He did not know where the door was to be found thiU: let into the castle ai that level, but he knew he could find it. How he was to fores the lodes he did not know; he believed that the doors of TecuhltU would all be lodced and bolted, if for no odier raison than the

habits of half a century. But there was nothing else but to attempt it.

Sword in hand, he hurried noiselessly on through a maze of green-lit or shadowy rooms and halls. He knew he must be neat Tecuhitli, when a sound brou^t him up short. He recognized it for what it was — a human being trying to cry out through a stifling gag. It came from somewhere ahead of him, and to the left. In those deathly-still chambers a small sound carried a long way,

Conan turned aside and went seddng after the sound, which continued to be repeated. Presently he was glaring through a doorway upon a weird scene. In the room into which he was looking a low radc-like frame of iron lay on the floor, and a giant figure was bound prostrate upon it. His head rested on a bed of iron spikes, which were already crimsonpointed with blood where they had pierced his scalp. A peculiar hamess-like contrivance was fastened about his head, though in such a manner that the leather band did not protect his scalp from the spikes. This harness was conneaed by a slender chain to the mechanism that upheld a huge iron ball which was suspended above the captive's hairy breast. As long as the man could force himself to remain motionless the iron ball hung in its place. But when the pain of the iron points caused him to lift his head, the ball lurched downward a few inches. Presently his aching neck muscles would no longer support his head in its unn^- ral position and it would fall back on the spikes again. It was obvious that eventually the ball would crush him to a pulp, slowly and inexorably. The victim was gagged, and above the gag his great blade ox-eyes rolled wildly toward the man in the doorway, who stood in silent amazement. The man on the rack was Olmec, prince of Tecuhitli,



'6. The By«s of Tascela

•♦''CT^hy did you bring me into this

yy chamber to bandage my legs?” demanded Valeria. ”G)uldn’t you have done it just as well in the throneroom?”

She sat on a couch with her wounded leg extended upon it, and the Tecuhltli ■woman had just bound it with silk ban* dages. Valeria's red-stained sword lay on the couch beside her.

She frowned as she spoke. The woman had done her task silently and efficiently, but Valeria liked neither the lingering, cessing touch of her slim fingers nor the expression in her eyes.

”They have taken the rest of the wounded into the other chambers,” answered the woman in the soft speech of the Tecuhltli women, which somehow did not suggest either softness or gentleness in the speakers. A little while before, Valeria had seen this same woman stab a Xotalanca woman through the breast and stamp the eyeballs out of a wounded Xotalanca man.

‘"They will be carrying the corpses of the dead down into Ae catacombs,” she added, “lest the ghosts escape into the chambers and dwell there.'*

“Do you believe in ghosts?" asked Valeria.

*7 know the ghost of Tolkemec dwells in the catacombs,” she answered with a shiver. "Once I saw it, as I crouched in a crypt among the bones of a dead queen. It passed by in the form of an ancient man with flowing white beard and lodes, and luminous eyes that blazed in the darkness. It was Tolkemec; I saw him living when I was a child and he was being tortured.”

Her voice sank to a fearful whisper: “Olmec laughs, but I know Tolkemec’s ghost dwells in the catacombs! They say it is rats which gnaw the flesh from the

bones of the newly dead — but ghosts eat flesh. Who knows but that "

She glanced up quickly as a shadow fell across the couch. Valeria looked up to see Olmec gazing down at her. The prince had cleansed his hands, torso and beard of the blood that had splashed them; but he had not donned his robe, and his great dark-skinned hairless body and limbs renewed the impression of strength bestial in its nature. His deep black ^es burned with a more element^ light, and there was the suggestion of a twitching in the fingers that tugged at his thick blue-black beard.

He stared fixedly at the woman, and she rose and glided from the chamber. As she passed through the door she cast a look over her shoulder at Valeria, a glance full of cynical derision and obscene mockery.

“She has done a dumsy job,” critidzed the prince, coming to the divan and bending over the bandage. “Let me see ”

With a quickness amazing in one of his bulk he snatched her sword and threw it across the chamber. His next move was to catch her in his giant arms.

Quick and unexpected as the move was, she almost matched it; for even as he grabbed her, her dirk was in her hand and she stabbed murderously at his throat. More by luck than skill he cau^t her wrist, and then began a savage wrestlingmatch. She fought him with fists, feet, knees, teeth and nails, with all the strength of her magnificent body and all the knowledge of hand-to-hand fighting she had acquired in her years of roving and fighting on sea and land. It availed her nothing against his brute strength. She lost her dirk in the first moment of contact, and thereafter found herself powerless to inflia any appreciable pain on her giant attacker.

'Ihe blaze in his weird black ^es did not alter, and their expression filled her



with fury, fanned by the sardonic smile that seemed carved upon his bearded lips. Those ^es and that smile contained all the cruel cynicism that seethes below the surface of a sophisticated and degenerate race, and for the first time in her life Valeria experienced fear of a man. It was like struggling against some huge elemental force; his iron arms thwarted her efforts with an ease that sent panic racing through her limbs. He seemed impervious to any pain she could inflict. Only once, when she sank her white teeth savagely into his wrist so that the blood started, did he react. And that was to buffet her brutally upon the side of the head with his open hand, so that stars flashed before her eyes and her head rolled on her shoulders.

Her shirt had been tom open in the struggle, and with cynical cruelty he rasped his thick beard across her bare breasts, bringing the blood to suffuse the fair skin, and fetching a cry of pain and outraged fury from her. Her convulsive yesistaflce was useless; she was crushed down on a couch, disarmed and panting, her eyes blazing up at him like the eyes of a trapped tigress.

A moment later he was hurrying from the chamber, carrying her in his arms. She made no resistance, but the smoldering of her ^es showed that she was unconquered in spirit, at least. She had not cried out. She knew that Conan was not within call, and it did not occur to her that any in Tecuhltli would oppose their prince. But she noticed that Olmec went steaUbily, with his head on one side as if listening for sounds of pursuit, and he did no* return to the throne chamber. He carried her through a door that stood opposite that through which he had entered, crossed another room and began stealing down a hall. As she became convinced that he feared some opposition to the abduction, she threw back her head and screamed at the top of her lusty voice.

She was rewarded by a slap that half stunned her, and Olmec quickened his pace to a shambling run.

But her cry had been edioed, and twisting her head about, Valeria, through the tears and stacs that partly blinded her, saw Techotl limping after them.

Olmec turned with a snarl, shifting the woman to an uncomfortable and certainly undignified position under one huge arm, where he held her writhing and kidcing vainly, like a child.

"Olmec!” protested Techotl. "You cannot be such a dog as to do this thing! She is Conan’s woman! She helped us slay the Xotalancas, and ”

WITHOUT a word Olmec balled his free hand into a huge fist and stretched the wounded warrior senseless at his feet. Stooping, and hindered not at all by the struggles and imprecations of his captive, he drew Techotl’s sword from its sheath and stabbed the warrior in the breast. Then casting aside the weapon he fled on along the corridor. He did not see a woman's dark face peer cautiously after him from behind a hanging. It vanished, and presently Techotl groaned and stirred, rose dazedly and staggered drunkenly away, calling Conan’s name.

Olmec hurried on down the corridor, and descended a winding ivory staircase. He crossed several corridors and halted at last in a broad chamber whose doors were veiled with heavy tapestries, with one exception — a heavy bronze door similar to the Door of the Eagle on the upper floor. He was moved to rumble, pointing to it; "That is one of the outer doors of Tecuhltli. For the first time in fifty years it is unguarded. We need not guard k now, for Xotalanc is no more.”



“Thanks to Conan and me, you bloody roguet” sneered Valeria, trembling with fury and the shame of physical coercion. "You treacherous dog! Conan will cut your throat for this!”

Olmec did not bodier to voice his belief that Conan’s own gullet had already been severed according to his whispered command. He was too utterly cynical to be at all interested in her thoughts or opinions. His flame-lit eyes devoured her, dwelling burningly on the generous expanses of clear white flesh exposed where her shirt and breeches had been tom in the struggle.

"Forget Conan,” he said thickly. "Olmec is lord of Xuchotl. Xotalanc is no more. There will be no more fighting. We shall spend our lives in drinking and love-making. First let us drink!”

He seated himself on an ivory table and pulled her down on his knees, like a dark-skinned satyr with a white nymph in his arms. Ignoring her un-nymphlike profanity, he held her helpless with one great arm about her waist while the other reached across the table and secured a vessel of wine.

"Drink!” he commanded, forcing it to her lips, as she writhed her head away.

The liquor slopped over, stinging her lips, splashing down on her naked breasts.

"Your guest does not like your wine, Olmec,” spoke a cool, sardonic voice.

Olmec stiffened; fear grew in his flaming eyes. Slowly he swung his great head about and stared at Tascela who posed negligently in the curtained doorway, one hand on her smooth hip. Valeria h^'isted herself about in his iron grip, and when she met the burning eyes of Tascela, a chill tingled along her supple spine. New experiences were flooding Valeria’s proud soul that night. Recently she had learned to fear a man; now she knew what it was to fear a woman.

Olmec sac motionless, a gray pallor

growing imder his swarthy skin. Tascela brought her other hand from behind her and displayed a small gold vessel.

"I feared she would not like your wine. Olmec,” purred the princess, "so I brought some of mine, some I brou^t with me long ago from the shores of Lake Zuad— do you understand, Olmec?”

Beads of sweat stood out suddenly on Olmec’s brow. His muscles relaxed, and Valeria broke away and put the table between them. But though reason told her to dart from the room, some fascination she could not understand held her rigid, watching the scene.

Tascela came toward the seated prince with a swaying, undulating walk that was mockery in itself. Her voice was soft, slurringly caressing, but her eyes gleamed. Her slim fingers stroked his beard lightly.

"You are selfish, Olmec,” she crooned, smiling. "You would keep our handsome guest to yourself, though you knew I wished to entertain her. You are mudi at fault, Olmec!"

The mask dropped for an instant; her eyes flashed, her face was contorted and with an appalling show of strength her hand lodced convulsively in his beard and tore out a great handful. 'This evidence of unnatural strength was no more terrifying than the momentary baring of the hellish fury that raged under her bland exterior.

Olmec lurched up with a roar, and stood swaying like a bear, his mighty hands clenching and unclenching.

"Slut!” His booming voice filled the room. "Witch! She-devil! TecuhItU should have slain you fifty years ago! Begone! I have endured too mudi from you! This white-skinned wench is mine! Get hence before I slay you!”

The princess laughed and dashed the blood-stained strands into his face. Her laughter was less merciful than the ring of flint on steel.

m

iWEIRD TALES

"Once you spoke otherwise, Olmec, she taunted. “Once, in your youth, you spoke words of love. Aye, you were my lover once, years ago, and because you loved me, you slept in my arms beneath the enchanted lotus — and thereby put into my hands the chains that enslaved you. You know you cannot withstand me. You know I have but to ga2e into your eyes, with the mystic power a priest of Stygia taught me, long ago, and you are powerless. You remember the night beneath the black lotus that waved above us, stirred by no worldly breeze; you scent again the unearthly perfumes that stole and rose like a cloud about you to enslave you. You cannot fight against me. You are my slave as you were that night — as you shall be so long as you shall live, Olmec of Xuchotl!”

H er voice had sunk to a murmur like the rippling of a stream running through starlit darkness. She leaned close to the prince and spread her long tapering fingers upon his giant breast. His eyes glazed, his great hands fell limply to his sides.

With a smile of cruel malice, Tascela lifted the vessel and placed it to his lips., “Drink!”

Mechanically the prince obeyed. And instantly the glaze passed from his eyes and they were flooded with fury, comprehension and an awful fear. His mouth gaped, but no sound issued. For an instant he reeled on buckling knees, and then fell in a sodden heap on the floor.

His fall jolted Valeria out of her paralysis. She turned and sprang toward the door, but with a movement that would have shamed a leaping panther, Tascela was before her. Valeria struck at her with her deoched fist, and all the power of her supple body behind the blow. It would have stretdied a man senseless on the floor. But with a lithe twist of her toirao,

Tascela avoided the blow and caught the pirate's wrist. The next instant Valeria’s left hand was imprisoned, and holding her wrists together with one hand, Tascela calmly bound them with a cord she drew from her girdle. Valeria thought she had tasted the ultimate in humiliation already that night, but her shame at being manhandled by Olmec was nothing to the sensations that now shook her supple frame. Valeria had always been inclined to despise the other members of her sex; and it was overwhelming to encounter another wcwnan who could handle her like a child. She scarcely resisted at all when Tascela forced her into a chair and drawing her bound wrists down between her knees, fastened them to the chair.

Casually stepping over Olmec, Tascela walked to the bronze door and shot the bolt and threw it open, revealing a hallway without.

“Opening upon this hall,” she remarked, speaking to her feminine captive for the first time, “there is a chamber which in old tim« was used as a torture room. When we retired into Tecuhltli, we brought most of flie apparatus with us, but there was one piece too heavy to move. It is still in worlring order. I think it will be quite convenient now.”

An understanding flame of terror rose in Olmec’s eyes. Tascela strode badk: to him, bent and gripped him by the hair.

“He is only paralyzed temporarily,*’^ she remarked convers^ionally. “He can hear, think, and feel — aye, he can feel very well indeed!”

Wifli which sinister observation she started toward the door, dragging the giant bulk with an ease that made the pirate’s eyes dilate. She passed into the hall and moved down it without hesitation, presently disappearing with her captive into a chamber that opened into it,


and whence shortljr thereafter issued the clank of iron.

Valeria swore softly and tugged vainly, with her legs braced against the chair. The cords that confined her were apparently unbreakable.

Tascela presently returned alone; behind her a muffled groaning issued from the chamber. She closed the door but did not bolt it, Tascela was beyond the grip of habit, as she was beyond the touch of other human instincts and emotions.

Valeria sat dumbly, watching the woman in whose slim hands, the pirate realized, her destiny now rested.

Tascela grasped her yellow locks and forced back her head, locking impenonally down into her face. But the glitter in her daric eyes was not impersonal.

"I have chosen you for a great honor,’* she said. "You shall restore the youth of Tascela. Oh, you stare at that! My appearance is that of youth, but through my veins creeps the sluggish chill of approaching age, as I have felt it a thousand times before. I am old, so old I do not rem«nber my childhood. But I was a girl once, and a priest of Stygia loved me, and gave me the secret of immortality and youth everlasting. He died, then — • some said by poison. But I dwelt in my palace by the shores of Lake Zuad and the passing years touched me not. So at last a king of Stygia desired me, and my people rd^elled and brought me to diis land. Olmec called me a princess. I am not of royal blood. I am greater than a princess. I am Tascela, whose youth your own glorious youth shall restore."

Valeria’s tongue clove to the roof of her mouth. She sensed here a mystery darker than the degeneracy she had anticipated.

Tlie taller woman unbound the Aquilonian's wrists and pulled her to her feet. It was not fear of the dominant strength that lurked in the princess’ limbs Aac

made Valeria a helpless, quivering captive in her hands. It was the burning, hypnotic, terrible eyes of Tascela.

7. He Comes from the Dark

ELL, I’m a Kushite!"

Conan glared down at the man on the iron rack.

"What the devil are you doing on that thing?"

Incoherent sounds issued from behind the gag and Conan bent and tore it away, evoking a bellow of fear from the captive; for his action caused the iron ball to lurch down until it nearly touched the broad breast.

"Be careful, for Set’s sake!" begged Olmec.

"What for?" demanded Conan. "Do you think I care what happens to you? I only wish I had time to stay here and watch that diunk of iron grind your guts out. But I’m in a hurry. Where’s Valeria?"

"Loose me!" urged Olmec, "I will tell you all!”

"Tell me first."

"Never!” The prince’s heavy jaws set stubbornly.

"All right." Conan seated himself on a near-by bench. 'Til find her myself, after you’ve been reduced to a jelly. I believe I can speed up that process by twisting my sword-point around in your ear," he added, extending the weapon experimentally.

"Wait!” Words came in a rush from the captive’s ashy lips. "Tascela took her from me. I’ve never been anything but a puppet in Tascela’s hands."

"Tascela?” snorted Conan, and spat. "Why, the filthy "

"No, no!” panted Olmec. "It’s worse than you think. Tascela is old — centuries old. She renews her life and her youth by the sacrifice of beautiful young wo348

:WEIRD TALES

men. That’s one thing that has reduced the clan to its present state. She will draw the essence of Valeria’s life into her own body, and bloom with fresh vigor a<)d beauty.”

“Are the doors locked?” asked G)nan, thumbing his sword edge.

"Aye! But I know a way to get into Tecuhltli. Only Tascela and I know, and she thinks me helpless and you slain. Free me and I swear I will help you rescue Valeria. Without my help you cannot win into Techultli; for even if you tortured me into revealing the secret, you couldn’t work it. Let me go, and we will steal on Tascela and kill her before she can work magic — before she can fix her eyes on us. A knife thrown from behind will do the work. 1 should have killed her thus long ago, but I feared that without her to aid us the Xocalancas would overcome us. She needed my help, too; that’s the only reason she let me live this long. Now neither needs the other, and one must die. I swear that wh«i we have slain the witch, you and Valeria shall go free without harm. My people will obey me when Tascela is dead."

Conan stooped and cut the ropes that held the prince, and Olmec slid cautiously from under the great ball and rose, shaking his head like a bull and muttering imprecations as he fingered his lacer^ed scalp. Standing shoulder to shoulder the two men presented a formidable picture of primitive power. Olmec was as tall as C^nan, and heavier; but there was something repellent about the Tlaaitlan, something abysmal and monstrous that contrasted unfavorably with the clean-cut, compact hardness of the Cimmerian. Conan had discarded the remnants of his tattered, blood-soaked shirt, and stood with his remarkable muscular development impressively revealed. His great shoulders were as broad as those of Olmec, and more cleanly outlined, and

his huge breast arched with a more impressive sweep to a hard waist that lacked the paunchy thickness of Olmec’s midsection. He might have been an image of primal strength cut out of bronze. Olmec was darker, but not from the burning of the stin. If Conan was a figure out of the dawn of Time, Olmec was a shambling, somber shape from the darkness of Time’s pre-dawn.

"Lead on,” demanded Conan. "And keep ahead of me. I don’t trust you any farther than I can throw a bull by the tail,”

Olmec turned and stalked on ahead of him, one hand twitching slightly as it plucked at his matted beard.

OLMEC did not lead Conan back to the bronze door, which the prince naturally supposed Tascela had locked, but to a certain chamber on the border of Tecuhltli,

"This secret has been guarded for half a century,” he said. "Not even our own dan knew of it, and the Xotalancas never learned, Tecuhltli himself built this secret entrance, afterward slaying the slaves who did the work; for he feared that he might find himself locked out of his own kingdom some day because of the spite of Tascela, whose passion for him soon changed to hate. But she discovered the secret, and barred the hidden door against him one day as he fied back from an unsuccessful raid, and the Xotalancas took him and flayed him. But once, spying upon her, I saw her enter Tecuhltli by this route, and so learned the secret.”

He pressed upon a gold ornament in the wall, and a panel swung inward, disclosing an ivory stair leading upward.

stair is built within the wall,” said Olmec, "It leads up to a tower upon the roof, and thence other stairs wind down to the various chambers. Hasten!” "After you, comrade!” retorted Conan


satirically, swaying his broadsword as he spoke, and Olmec shrugged his shoulders and stepped onto the staircase. G>nan instantly followed him, and the door shut behind them. Far above a cluster of firejewels made the staircase a well of dusky dragon-light.

They mounted until Conan estimated that they were above the level of the fourth floor, and then came out into a cylindrical tower, in the domed roof of which was set the bunch of fire-jewels that lighted the stair. Through goldbarred windows, set with unbreakable crystal panes, the first windows he had seen in Xuchotl, Conan got a glimpse of high ridges, domes and more towers, looming darkly against the stars. He was looking across the roofs of Xuchotl.

Olmec did not look through the windows. He hurried down one of the several stairs that wound down from the tower, and when they had descended a few feet, this stair changed into a narrow corridor that wound tortuously on for some distance. It ceased at a steep flight of steps leading downward. Ihere Olmec paused.

Up from below, mufiled, but uftmistakable, welled a woman’s scream, edged with fright, fury and shame. And Conan recognized Valeria’s voice.

In the swift rage roused by that cry, and the amazement of wondering what peril could wring such a shriek from Valeria’s reckless lips, Conan forgot Olmec. He pushed past the prince and started down the stair. Awakening instinct brought him about again, just as Olmec struck with his great mallet-like fist. The blow, fierce and silent, was aimed at the base of Conan’s brain. But the Cimmerian wheeled in time to receive the buffet on the side of his neck instead. The impact would have snapped the vertebne of a lesser man. As it was, Conan swayed backward, but even as he reeled


he dropped his sword, useless at such close quarters, and grasped Olmec’s extended arm, dragging the prince with him as he fell. Headlong thqr went down the steps together, in a revolving whirl of limbs and heads and bodies. And as they went Conan’s iron fingers found and locked in Olmec’s bull-throat.

The barbarian’s neck and shoulder felt numb from the sledge-Iike impact of Olmec’s huge fist, which had carried all the strength of the massive forearm, thieje triceps and great shoulder. But this did not affect his ferocity to any appreciable extent. Like a bulldog he hung on grimly, shaken and battered and beaten against the steps as they rolled, until at last they struck an ivory panel-door at the bottom with such an impact that they splintered it its full length and crashed through its ruins. But Olmec was already dead, for those iron fingers had crushed out his life and broken his neck as they fell.

CONAN rose, shaking the splinters from his great shoulder, blinking blood and dust out of his eyes.

He was in the great throneroom. There were fifteen p«)ple in that room besides himself. The first person he saw was Valeria. A curious black altar stood before the throne-dais. Ranged about it, seven blade candles in golden candlesticks sent up oozing spirals of thick green smoke, disturbingly scented. These spirals united in a cloud near the ceiling, forming a smoky arch above the altar. On that altar lay Valeria, stark naked, her white flesh gleaming in shocking contr^t to the glistening ebon stone. She was not bound. She lay at full length, her arms stretched out above her head to their fullest extent. At the head of the altar knelt a young man, holding her wrists firmly. A young woman knelt at the other end of the altar, grasping her ankles. Between them she could neither rise nor move.



Eleven men and women of Tecuhltli knelt dumbly ia a semicircle, watching the scene with hot, lustful eyes.

On the ivory dirone-se^ Tascela lolled. Bronze bowls of incense rolled their spirals about her; the wisps of smoke curled about her naked limbs like caressing fingers. She could not sit still; she squirmed and shifted about with sensuous abandon, as if finding pleasure in ^e contact of the smooth ivory with her sleek flesh.

The crash of the door as it broke beneath the impact of the hurtling bodies caused no change in the stene. The kneeling men and women merely glanced incuriously at the corpse of their prince and at the man who rose from the ruins of the door, then swung their eyes greedily bade to the writhing white shape on the blade akar. Tascela looked insolently at him, and sprawled bade on her sea^ laughing mockingly.

"Slut!” Conan saw red. His hands clenched into iron hammers as he started for her. With his first step something clanged loudly and steel bit savagely into his leg. He stumbled and almost fell, checked in his headlong stride. The jaws of an iron trap had dosed on his leg, with teeth that sank d^p and held. Only the ri<%ed muscles of his calf saved the bone from being splintered. The accursed thing had sprung out of the smoldering floor without warning. He saw the slots now, in the floor where the jaws had lain, perfectly ciraouflaged.

"Foed!” laughed Tascela. "Did you think I would not guard against your possible return? Every door in this chamber is guarded by such traps. Stand there and watch now, while I fulfill the destiny of your handsome friend! Then I will decide your own.”

Conan’s hand instinctively sought his belt, only to encounter an empty scabbard. His sword was oa the stair behind

him. His poniard was lying back in the forest, where the dragon had tom it from his jaw. The steel teeth in his leg were like burning coals, but the pain was not as savage as the fury that seethed in his soul. He was trappy, like a wolf. If he had had his sword he would have hewn off his leg and aawled across the floor to slay Tascela. Valeria’s eyes rolled toward him with mute appeal, and his own helplessness sent red waves of madness surging through his brain.

Dropping on the knee of his free leg, he strove to get his fingers between the jaws of the trap, to tear them apart by sheer strength. Blood started from b^ neath his finger nails, but the jaws fitted close about his leg in a circle whose segments jointed perfectly, contracted until there was no space between his mangled flesh and the fanged iron. Tlie sight of Valeria’s naked body added flame to the fire of his rage.

Tascela ignored him. Rising languidly from her seat she swept the ranks of her subjects with a seaxdiing glance, and asked: "Where are Xamec, Zlanath and

Tachic?”

"They did not return from the catacombs, princess,” answered a man. "Like the rest of us, they bore the bodies of the slain into the crypts, but they have not returned. Perhaps the ghost of Tolkemec took them.”

"Be silent, fool!” she ordered harshly, "The ghost is a myth.”

She came down from her dais, playing with a thin gold-hilted dagger. Her eyes burned like nothing on the hither side of hell. She paused beside die altar and spoke in the tense stillness.

"Your life shall make me young, white woman!” she said. "I shall lean upon your bosom and place my lips over j'ours, and slowly — ah, slowly! — ^sink diis blade through your heart, so that your life, fleeing your stiffening body, sh^ eater mine.



soaking me bloom again with youth and with life everlasting!”

Slowly, like a serpent arching toward its victim, she bent down through the writhing smoke, closer and closer over the now motionless woman who stared up into her glowing daik eyes— eyes that grew larger and deeper, bla 2 ing like blade moons in the swirling smoke.

The kneeling people gripped their hands and held their breath, tense for the bloody climax, and the only sound was Conan’s fierce panting as he strove to tear his leg from the trap.

All eyes were glued on the altar and the white figure there; the crash of a thimderbolt could hardly have broken the spell, yet it was only a low cry that shattered the fixity of the scene and brought all whirling about — a low cry, yet one to make the hair stand up stiffly on the scalp. They looked, and they saw.

Framed in the door to the left of the dais stood a nightmare figure. It was a man, with a tangle of white hair and a matted white beard that fell over his breast. Rags only partly covered his gaunt frame, revealing half-naked limbs strangely unnatural in appearance. The skin was not like that of a normal human. There was a suggestion of scaliness about it, as if the owner had dwelt long under conditions almost antithetical to those conditions under which human life ordinarily thrives. And there was nothing at all human about the eyes that bla 2 ed from the tangle of white hair. They were great gleaming disks that stared unwinkingly, luminous, whitish, and without a hint of normal emotion or sanity. The mouth gaped, but no coherent words issued — only a high-pitched tittering.

•‘►T^olkemec!” whispered Tascela,

JL livid, while the others crouched in speechless horror. “No myth, then, no ghost! Set! You have dwelt for twelve

years in darkness! Twelve years among the bones of the dead! What grisly food did you find? What mad travesty of life did you live, in the stark blackness of that eternal night? 1 see now why Xamec and Zlanath and Tachic did not return from the catacombs — and never will return. But why have you waited so long to strike? Were you seeking something, in the pits? Some secret weapon you knew was hidden there? And have you found it at last?”

That hideous tittering was Tolkemec’s only reply, as he bounded into the room with a long leap that carried him over the secret trap before the door — by chance, or by some faint recollection of the ways of Xuchotl. He was not mad, as a man is mad. He had dwelt apart from humanity so long that he was no longer human. Only an unbroken thread of memory embodied in hate and the urge for vengeance had connected him with the humanity from which he had been cut o£F, and held him lurking near the people he hated. Only that thin string had kept him from racing and prancing off for ever into the black corridors and realms of the subterranean world he had discovered, long a^.

"You sought something hidden!” whispered Tascela, cringing back. “And you have found it! You remember the feud! After all these years of blackness, you remember!”

For in the lean hand of Tolkemec now waved a curious jade-hued wand, on the end of which glowed a knob of crimson shaped like a pomegranate. She sprang aside as he thrust it out like a spear, and a beam of crimson fire lanced from the pomegranate. It missed Tascela, but the woman holding Valeria’s ankles was in the way. It smote between her shoulders. There was a sharp aackling sound and the ray of fire flashed from her bosom and struck the black altar, with a snap352


ptng of blue ^arks. The woman toppled sidewise, shriveling and withering like a mumm^ even as she fell.

Valeria rolled from the altar on the other side, and started for the opposite wall on all fours. For hell had burst loose in the throneroom of dead Olmec.

The man who had held Valeria's hands was the nert to die. He turned to run, but before he had taken half a dozen steps, Tolkemec, with an agility appalling in such a frame, bounded around to a position that placed the man between him and the altar. Again the red fire-beam flashed and the Tecuhltli rolled lifeless to the floor, as the beam completed its course with a burst of blue sparks against the altar.

Then began slaughter. Screaming insanely the people rushed about the chamber, caroming from one another, stumbling and falling. And among them Tolkemec capered and pranced, dealing death. They could not escape by the doors; for apparently the metal of the portals served like the metal-veined stone altar to complete the circuit for whatever hellish power flashed like thunderbolts from the witch-wand the ancient waved in his hand. When he caught a man or a woman between him and a door or the altar, that one died instantly. He chose no special victim. He took them as they came, with his rags flapping about his wildly gyrating limbs, and the gusty echoes of his tittering sweeping the room above die screams. And bodies fell like falling leaves about the altar and at the doors. One warrior in desperation rushed at him, lifting a dagger, only to fall before be could strike. But the rest w'cre like crazed cattle, with no thought for resistance, and no chance of escape.

The last Tecuhltli excqjt Tascela had fallen when the princess reached the Cimmerian and die girl who had taken refuge beside him, Tascela bent

and touched the floor, pressing a design upon it. Instantly the iron jaws released bleeding limb and sank back into the floor.

“Slay him if you can!” she panted, and pressed a heavy knife into his hand. “I have no magic to withstand him!”

With a grunt he sprang before the women, not heeding his lacerated leg in the heat of the fighting-lust. Tolkemec was coming toward him, his weird eyes ablaze, but he hesitated at the gleam of the knife in Conan's hand. 'Then began a grim game, as Tolkemec sought to circle about Conan and get the barbarian between him and the altar or a metal door, while Conan sought to avoid this and drive home his knife. The women watched tensely, holding tfieir breath.

There was no sound except the rustle and scrape of quick-shifting feet. Tolkemec pranced and capered no more. He realized that grimmer game confronted him than the people who had died screaming and fleeing. In the elemental blaze of the barbarian’s eyes he read an intent deadly as his own. Back and forth they weaved, and when one moved the other moved as if invisible threads bound them together. But all the time Conan was getting closer and closer to his enemy. Already the coiled muscles of his thighs were beginning to flex for a spring, when Valeria cried out. For a fleeting instant a bronze door was in line with Conan’s moving body. The red line leaped, searing Conan's flank as he twisted aside, and even as he shifted he hurled the knife. Old Tolkemec went down, truly slain at last, the hilt vibrating on his breast.

T ascela sprang — not toward Conan, but toward the wand where it shimmered like a live thing on the floor. But as she leaped, so did Valeria, with a dagger snatched from a dead man, and the

w. r— 6


blade, driven witli all the power of the pirate's muscles, impaled the princess of Tecuhltli so that the point stood out between her breasts. Tascela screamed once and fell dead, and Valeria spurned the body widi her heel as it fell.

"I had to do that much, for my own self-respect!” panted Valeria, facing Conan across the limp corpse.

"Well, this deans up the feud,” he grunted. “It's been a hell of a night! Where did these people keep their food? I’m hungry.”

“You need a bandage on that leg.” Valeria ripped a length of silk from a hanging and knotted it about her waist, then tore off some smaller strips which she bound efiidently about the barbarian’s lacerated limb.

”1 can walk on it,” he assured her.


"Let’s begone. It’s dawn, outside this infernal city. I’ve had enough of Xuchotl. It’s well the breed exterminated itself. I don’t want any of their accursed jewels. They might be haunted.”

"There is enough dean loot in the world for you and me,” she said, straightening to stand tall and splendid before him.

'The old blaze came bade in his eyes, and this rime she did not resist as he caught her fiercely in his arms.

"It's a long way to the mast,” she said presently, withdrawing her lips from his.

"What matter?" he laughed. “There’s nothing we can't conquer. We'll have our feet on a ship's dedc before the Stygians open their ports for the trading season. And then we'll show the world what plundering means!”

[THE END}

R. E. H.

Died June 11, 1936 By R. H. BARLOW

Conan, the warrior king, lies stricken dead Beneath a sky of cryptic stars; the lute lhat was his laughter stilled, and sadly mute Upon the diilling earth his youthful head.

There sounds for him no more the clamorous fray. But dirges now, where once the trumpet loud: About him press old memories for shroud.

And ended is the conflict of the day.

Death spilled the blood of him who loved the fi^t As men love mistresses, and fought it well —

His fair young flesh is marble where he fell With broken sword that vanquished all but Night; And as of mythic kings our words must speak Of Conan now, who roves where dreamers se^

W.T.— 7

The

oors of Death

By ARTHUR B. WALTERMIRE

strange and curious story is this, about a hanker whose only fear, was that he might be buried alive, like his grandfather before him

AHEAVY stillness hung about the great halls and richly furnished • rooms of Judson McMasters’ residence, and even seemed to extend out over the velvet lawns, the shrub-lined walks and sun-blotched reaches under the lacy elms and somber maples.

Biggs glided about the side-chamber like a specter, apparently striving to keep busy, while he cast countless furtive, uneasy glances at the heavy figure under the white sheets. An odor of drugs and fever tainted the air, and a small walnut table near the flushed sleeper was laden with the familiar presaiption bottle, tumbler and box of powders. On the wall behmd the table, near the head of the bed, hung a small oil-painting of Napoleon.

The sleeper stirred restlessly, raised himself painfully and slowly, and attempted to seek fleeting comfort in a new position. At the first movement Biggs was a shadow at the bedside, deftly manipulating the coverings and gently aiding the sick man with a tenderness bom of Iwig service and deep affection. As the massive gray head sank into the fluffed pillow the tired eyes opened, lighted by a faint glint of thankfulness. Then they closed again and the once powerful body relaxed.

With a pitiful, wistful expression on his aged face, the faithful Biggs stood helplessly peering at the sick man until hot tears began to course down his furrowed cheeks, and he turned hastily away.

"Biggs!'*

The voice, still strong and commanding, cut the semi-gloom like a knife.

Biggs, who was about to tuck the heavy curtains still more securely over the windows, whirled as though he had touched a live wire, and in a flash was across the great room and beside the bed.

"Did you call, sir?’* His voia quavered.

"No” — a faint twinkle lighted the sick man’s eyes — "I just spoke.”

"Ah, now sir," aied Ae overjoyed Biggs, "you are better, sir.”

"Biggs, I want some air and sunshine,”

"But the doctor, sir ”

"Drat the doctor! If I’m going to pass out I want to see where I’m going.”

"Oh, but sir," expostulated the old servant, as he parted the curtains and partially opened a casement window, "I wish you wouldn’t say that, sir."

"I believe in facing a situation squarely, Biggs. My father and grandfather died from this family malady, and I guess I’m headed over the same route."

"Please, sir,” entreated Biggs.

"Biggs, I want to ask you a question.”

"Yes, sir?"

"Are you a Christian?”

"I try to be, sir.”

"Do you believe in death?”

Biggs was thoroughly startled and confused.

"Why — a — we all have to di^ someTHE DOORS OF DEATH


time, sir,” he answered haltingly, not knowing what else to say.

”Btrt do we actually die?" insisted Ae sufferer.

"Well, I hope — not yet," ventured the old servant. "The doctor said "

"Forget the doctor," interposed MeMasters, "Biggs, you have been in our service since I was a lad, haven’t you?”

Tears welled into the servant's eyes, and his voice faltered.

"Fifty-six years, come next November," he answered.

"Well, let me tell you sometliing, that even in those fifty-six years you never learned, Biggs. My grandfather was buried alive!”

"(Si, sir! Impossible!” cried Biggs, in h(Kror.

"Absolutely," asserted the banker.

"Why — are you — how do you blow, sir?" in a hoarse whisper.

"My father built a family mausoleum in the far aimer of this estate, didn’t he?"

"Yes, sir — ^he hated burial in the earth, sir, after reading a poem of Edgar Allan Poe’s, sir!"

"What poem was that, Biggs?"

"I don't recall the name of it, but I remoaber the line," faltered Biggs.

"What was it?"

sir," cried the old man, "let’s talk about something cheerful."

"Not until we’re through with this discussion, Hiram."

T he sound of his given name restored Biggs somewhat, for the banker resorted to it only on occasions when he shared his deepest confidences with bis old houseman.

"Well, the line goes, ‘Soft may the worms about him creep,’ sir."

A slight shudder seemed to run throu^ McMasters’ body. Then after a

tomb-like silence, "Good reason for building the mausoleum."

"Yes, sir, I think so, sir."

"Well," with an apparent effort, "when they exhumed my grandfather's remains to pla<^ them in the new vault, the casket was opened, and "

"Oh, sir,” cried Biggs, throwing out a trembling, expostulating hand, but the banker went on, relentlessly.

" the body was turned over, on its

side, with the left knee drawn up partway."

"That’s the way he always slept — in life,” Biggs’ voice was a hollow whisper.

“And that’s the reason my father, after building himself a mausoleum, insisted that his body be cremated," said McMasters. "He took no chances."

Biggs’ horrified eyes traveled dully to the massive um over the great fireplace and rested there, fascinated.

"Hiram, where is heaven?"

Biggs’ eyes jSitted bade to rest in surprise upon the questioner.

"Why, up there, sir," pointing toward the ceiling.

"Do you believe that the earth rotates on its axis?"

"That’s what I was taught in school, sir.”

"If that hypothesis is true, we are rolling through space at the rate of about sixteen miles a minute," figured the banker. "Now you say heaven is up there."

"Yes, sir."

"Biggs, what time is it?"

The servant glanced at the great clodc in the comer.

"Ah, it's twelve o'clock, sir, and time for your medicine,” in a voice full of relief.

"Never mind the drugs," commanded McMasters, "until we finish our problem in higher mathematics. Now, if £ ask you where heaven is at midni^t.



which will be twelve hours from now, where will you point,” triumphantly.

“Why, up there,” replied the bewildered servant, again indicating the ceiling.

“Then,” aied McMasters, “you will be pointing directly opposite from the place you indicated a moment a^; for by midnight the earth will have turned approximately upside down. Do you get my point?”

"Yes, sir,” replied poor Biggs, thoroughly befuddled.

“Then where will heaven be at six o’clock this evening?” fairly shouted the sick mao.

“Out there,” replied the servant, hopelessly, pointing toward the window.

“And where will heaven be at six o’clock in the morning?”

“Over there.” And Biggs pointed a trembling finger at the fireplace. Then, “Oh, sir, let's not — the doctor ’*

“Hang the doctor,” interrupted McMasters testily. “I’ve been thinking this thing over, and I've got to talk about it to someone.”

“But don’t you believe in a hereafter?” queried Biggs, a horrible note of fear in his pitiful voice.

For a moment the banker was silent; the massive clock ticked solemnly on. A coal toppled with a sputter and fiare in the fireplace.

“Yes, Hiram,” in a thou^tful voice, “I suppose I do.”

“I’m glad to hear you say that,” cried Biggs in very evident relief.

“Ah, if you could but tell me,” continued the banker, “from whence we come, and whither we go?”

“If I knew, sir, I’d ^ equal with the Creator,” answered Biggs with reverence.

“'That's well said, Hiram, but it doesn’t satisfy me. Tve made my place in the world by g^ng to the root of things. Ah, if 1 could only get a peek behind the

curtain, before 1 go— badc-stage, you know — ^mayhap I would not be afraid to die,” and his voice fell almost to a whisper.

“'The Great Director does not permit the audience behind the footlights, unless he calls them,” answer^ Biggs whimsically, the ghost of a smile lighting up his troubled features.

“Another thing, Biggs, do you believe those stories about Jonah, and Lazarus, and the fellow they let down through a hole in the roof to be healed?”

“I do, sir,” with conviction.

“Do you understand how It was done?” testily.

“Of course not, sir, being only a human,”

"Then tell me, Hiram, when you cannot see through it, how can you swallow all this theology?”

“My faith, sir,” answered Biggs, simply, raising his eyes with reverence.

At this, a quizzical smile came over the sick man’s face.

“In looking up, Hiram, don’t forget, since it is twelve-thirty, that we have swimg around four hundred and eighty miles from the spot you originally designated as the location of the Pearly Gates,”

“Oh, sir, I beg of you,” remonstrated the servant, “I cannot bear to have you jest on such a — why, master!” he broke off with a little cry, rushing to his bedside.

The quizzical smile on the banker’s face had suddenly faded, and his head had fallen feebly back upon the pillow.

“Oh, why did he waste his strength so?” cried Biggs, piteously, as with tronbling hands and tear-blurred eyes he sear^ed the little table for the smellingsalts.

After a few breaths, the patient sighed and opened his eyes wearily.

“My medicine, Hiram, and then 1 must rest”

E


3>7

At midnight, Biggs, dozing in a big JTm. chair by the hre, was aroused by a voice from the sick bed.

"Hiram.”

"Yes, sir,” scurrying to turn on a subdued light.

"Where is heaven now?”

Noting the wan dicker of a smile, the old servant pointed solemnly downward.

''You are a bright pupil,” came in a scarcely audible voice.

"Thank you, sir."

"Do you know, Biggs, I wish I bad led a different — a better life.”

"You have been a good master, sir. You have been kind, you have given liberally to charity," Biggs defended him.

"Yes," cynically, "I have given liberally to charity. But it has been no sacrifice.”

"You have been a pillar in the church,” ventured Biggs.

"Yes," bitterly, "a stone pillar. I have paid handsomely for my pew, and slept peacefully through the sermons. I have bought baskets of food for the poor at Thanksgiving and Christmas time, only to let others reap the happiness of giving them away. I could have bad so much joy out of Christmas, if I would. I could have been a jolly, rosy-cheeked Santa Gaus and gone to a hundred homes, my arms loaded with gifts."

"True, sir, but you made that joy possible for others.”

"When I should have known the thrill of it myself. I have not really lived, Hiram. To draw the sweets truly out of life, one must humble himself and serve his fellow men. Yes, the scales have fallen from my eyes, Hiram, But it is too late, ‘the spirit is willing but the flesh is weak'.”

"It doesn't seem right, sir,” said Biggs after a pause.

‘'What’s that, Hiram?"

"Why, sir, that you should be stridteo

down in the prime of life, just at a time when you could mean so much to others, while 1, old and useless, am permitted to live on. But I am not finding fault with Providence, sir," Biggs hastened to say; "I just can’t find the meaning of the riddle, sir."

"Probably I’ve had my chance and fumbled it, Biggs.”

"Even so, sir, God is not vindictive according to my ideas. There surely is some other solution. Tm still going to pray that He will take me in your stea<^ even if a miracle must be performed."

"So you have faith in your prayers, do you, Biggs?”

"Yes, sir, if they are unselfish prayers.’*

"That brand is rather scarce, I take it,” answered McMasters, but his tone was reflective rather than sarcastic.

"Oh, sir, I wish you would pray as I do. God would surely understand."

"Rather a queer requ«t, Hiram. If my life depends upon your death no prayer shall ever pass my lips.”

"But, sir, Tm an old- ”

"However,” interrupted McMasters, "I shall pray that if my life is spared in any other fashion, I will make full aroeneb for my years of indifference and neglect. And, Hiram, no one knows how much I truly seek this divine dispensation. But I have always scoffed at death-bed confessions, and so my heart grows cold, foe I have no right to ask — now.” Again, wearily, "No ri^t — now.”

"Ah, master, God is plenteous in mercy. If you but have the faith, sir, it shall make you whole.”

"Very good, had I lived as you have lived, Biggs." Then, after a pause, "Still, the cause is worthy, my heart is right and I shall approach the Throne. May God be merciful unto me, a sinner."

"I hope it is not too late yet,” faltered Biggs. "Oh, if God would only call me



in foaar stead tiiat 70a might still do the go^ work that you hnd it in your heart to do, how gladly would I go."

A deep sigh was his only answer.

A long silence was finaJly broken by the sick man. But when he spoke, his voice was so strange and uncanny that the servant hastened dose and peered anxiously into the fever-flushed face of the sufferer.

"Hiram — I must tell you — a secret," came in a ldx)rious, almost sepulchral, whisper.

Biggs came doser.

"Bring a chair and sit down. I must talk to you."

As die old servant again leaned forward, the sufferer hesitated; then with an obvious effort he began.

"Hiram, I am going to give you some instructions whidi you must obey to the letter. Will you promise to keep them?"

"I swear it, sir,” with great earnestness.

"Good! Now, if this fever seals my lips and the doctor pronounces me dead "

"Pkase, sir," Biggs broke in, tears streammg down his furmwed cheeks, but his master continued in the same subdued voice, "Whatever happens, I am not to be embalmed — do you hear me? — not embalmed, but just laid away as I am now."

"Yes, sir,” in a chc 4 ced voice, whidi fully betrayed the breaking heart behind it

"And now, Hiram, the rest of the secret.” He paused and beckoned Biggs to lean doser.

"In my vault — in the mausoleum, I have had an electric button installed. That button connects with a silver bell. Lift up that small picture of Napoleon, there upon the wall."

His hands trembling as with the palsy,

Biggs reached out and lifted aside the picture hanging near the bead of the bed, and there revealed the silver bell, fitted into a small aperture in the wall. Then, with a sob, he fell back into his chair.

"Hiram" — in a whisper — "after they bury me, you are to sleep in this bed."

With a cry, the old man threw out a horrified, expostulating hand. Catohing it feverishly, the banker half raised himself in bed.

"Don’t you understand?" he cried fiercely. "I may not be dead after alL Remember grandfather! And Biggs — if that bell rings, get hdp — quick!"

Suddenly releasing his hold, McMasters fell back limply among the pillows.

A ll through the long night the faithful Biggs maintained a sleepless vigil, but the banker lay as immovable as a stone. When the rosy-cheeked dawn came peeping audaciously through the casements, Biggs drew the heavy curtains tightly shut once more.

Not until the doctor’s motor whirled away did the patient rouse from his kthargy.

Apparently strengthened by his deep stupor he spoke, and Biggs stood instantly beside him.

"What did the doctor say?”

Biggs hesitated.

"Out with it, I’m no chideen-hearted weakling."

"Nothing much," admitted Biggs, sadly. "He only shook his head very gravely."

"He doesn’t understand this family malady any more than the old quack who allowed my grandfather to be buried alive," said McMasters almost fiercely.

Biggs shuddered and put a trembling hand to his eyes.

'What ails me, Biggs?" almost pldnriveiy. "No one knows. This fever hss



bafBed tfie sdeotists for years. When you fall into a comatose condition they call it suspended animation. That's the best thing they do — find names for diseases. My family doctor doesn’t have any more of an idea about this malady than you or I. 'The average physician is just a guesser. He guesses you have a fever and prescribes a remedy, hoping that it will hit the spot. If it doesn't he looks wise, wags his head — and tries something else on you. Maybe it works and maybe it doesn’t. The only thing my guesser is absolutely sure of is chat if I live or if I die, he will collect a princely fee for his services.”

Biggs remained statuesque during the pause.

’*Gad,’* McMasters broke out again testily, "if I fiddled around in my business like that I’d be a pauper in a month.”

*'But the doctor says you’re coming on," ventured Biggs.

"Sure he docs,” answered the banker with a sneer, '"rhat's his stock in trade. 1 know that line of palaver. Secretly, he knows I am as liable to be dead as alive when he comes again.”

"Oh, sir, you aren’t going to die!”

"That's what I’m afraid of, Big^. But they’ll call me dead and go ahead and embalm me and make sure of it.”

"Oh, sir, I wish ”

"Now remember, Biggs,” broke in the side man, "shoot the first undertaker that tries to put that mummy stufip in my veins."

"I understand perfectly, sir," answered Biggs, fearful lest the other’s excitement might again give him a turn for the worse.

"I know I’m apparently going to pass away. My father and grandfather both had this cussed virus in their veins, and

I don’t believe either of them was dead when he was pronounced sol”

"Well, if by any chance — that is, if you,” began Biggs desperately, "if you are apparently — dead — why not have them keep your body here in the bouse for a time?”

"Convention, formality, custom, hidebound law!” the banker fairly frothed. "'The health authorities would come here with an army and see that I was buried. No, Biggs, I’ve got a fine crypt out there, all quiet and secure, good ventilation, electric lights, like a pullman berth — and a push-button. 'That precludes all notoriety. It's secret and safe. 'The electrician who installed the apparatus died four years ago. So you and I, alone, possess this knowledge.”

"Don’t you think someone else should know of it too? Your attorney, or ”

"No, Biggs. If 1 really am dead I don’t want anyone to write up my eccentricities for some Sunday magazine sheet. And if 1 do come Ixuk, then it will be time to tell the gaping public about my cleverness.”

"I wish you weren’t so — ^so cold-blooded about it all, sir.”

"I have always hit straight from the shoulder, Hiram, and I’m facing tliis death business as I’d face any other proposition. I’m not ready to cash ki, and if I can cheat the doctors, undertakers, lawyers, heirs, and chief mourners for a few more years. I’m going to do it. And don’t forget poor old granddad. He might have been up and ^ut yet had he but used my scheme."

B iggs turned away, side at heart. U was too terrible beyond words. To him his religion was as essential as daily bread. Death was the culmination of cherished belief and constant prayer. As his years declined he had faced the inevitable day with simple faith that when the



summons came he would go gladly, like him "who wraps the drapery of his coiudi about him and lies down to pleas* ant d^ams.” With throbbing heart he listened for another torrent of words that would still further stab his sensitive soul; for he had loved and revered his master from kis youth up.

But no words came. He wheeled about The massive head had fallen limply among the pillows. Pallid lips were trying to form sentences without result. Then die great body seemed to subside immeasurably deeper into the covers and a deatfi-like stillness fell upon the room.

Intuitively feeling that his master was worse Aan at any previous relapse, Biggs made every effort to revive him, gently at first, and then by vigorously shaking and calling to him in a heart-broken, piteous voice. But to no avail. The heavy figure looked pallid and corpse-like under the snowy sherts.

Long hours dragged by, and still the lonely old servant sat miitely beside the bed, <Mily aroused, at last, by the peremptory, measured call of the telephone bell.

■'Yes,” said Biggs in a quavering voice. "Oh yes, Doctor Meredith, Master’s resting easy. Don’t think you’ll need to come until tomorrow.’’

'T’fl keep them away as long as I can," he mattered, as he slipped ba(^ to his vigil. "God grant — maybe he’ll come back — and take up the work of the Master, so long delayed. Oh God! If Hiou wouldftt only take me in his stead!"

Sleeping fitfully, Biggs sat dumbly through an interminable night, but the new day brought no reassuring sign from the kiert form. 'The stillness was appalling. The other servants were quartered in a distant part of the mansion and only came when summoned. Again Biggs assured the physician that he could gain notbiag by calling, and anodier awful

night foimd him, ashen and distraught, at the bedside. Sometime in the still watches he swooned ^d kindly nature patched up his shredded nerves, before consciousness once more aroused him. But the strain was more than he could bear. So when the anxious specialist came, unbidden, he found a shattered old watchman who broke down completely and babbled forth the whole mystehoiis tale, concealing nothing but the secret of the tomb.

In a offin previously made to order, they laid the unembalmed remains of Judson McMasters in the family mausoleum, and die world which had felt his masterful presence for so many years paused long enough to lay a costly tribute on his bier and then went smoothly on its way.

Not so with the faithful Biggs. Ensconced in his master’s bedroom, he nightly tossed in troubled sleep, filled with the jangling of innumerable electric bells. And when — on the tenth night, after he bad been somewhat reassured ffiat ail was well — he was suddenly awakened by a mad, incess^t ringing from the hidden alarm, a deathly weakness overcame him and it was some time before he was able to drag bis palsied body from the bed. With fumbling, clumsy fingers he tried to hasten, but it was many minutes before he tottered, half dressed, out of the room. And as he did so, his heart almost stood still, then mounted to his ffiroat as if to choke him.

"Biggs!” — a voice — McMaster’s voice was calling.

He staggered to the head of the wide, massive stairway and looked down. There stood the banker, pale, emaciated, but smiling.

And th^ as from an endless distance, came more words:

"1 forgot to tell you that 1 had a trapTHE DOORS OF DEATH


doof m the end of the casket. When you didn’t suiswer the bell, 1 found I could come alone.”

With an inarticulate cty, Biggs stretched out his trembling arms.

"My Master, I am earning now.”

Then he swayed, stumbled, clutched feebly at the rail and plunged headlong to the foot of the ^airs, a crumpled, lifeless form.

vhe r

ecret of Kralit2;

By HENRY KUTTNER

‘A story of the shocking revelation that came to the twenty-first Baron Kralitz

IAWOKE from profound sleep to had two black-swathed forms standing silently beside me, their faces pale bhirs in the gloom. As I blinked to clear my sleep-dimmed eyes, one of them bedcoaed impatiently, and suddenly I reacted the purpose of this midnight sumnmns. For years I had b^n expecting it, eref since my father, the Baron Kralitz, had revealed to me the secret and die curse that hung over our ancient house. And so, without a word, I rose and followed my guid« as they led me alcHig the gloomy corridors of the castle that had been my home since birth.

As I proceeded diere rose up in my mind the stern face of my father, and in my cars rang his solemn words as he told me of the legendary curse of the House of Kralitz, the unknown secret that was imparted to the eldest son of each generation — at a certain time.

“When?” I had asked my father as he lay Oft his death-bed, fighting back the appioftdi of dissolutimi.

"When you are able to understand," he iud told me, watching my f^e intently from beneath his tufted white brows. “Some are told the secret sooner than others. Since the first Baron Kralitz the secret has been handed down ”

He clutched at his breast and paused. It was fully five minutes before he had gathered his strength to speak again in his rolling, powerful voice. No gasping, death-bed confessions for the Damn Kralitz!

He said at last, “You have seen the ruins of the old monastery near the village, Franz. The first Baron burnt it and put the monks to the sword. The Abbot interfered too often with the Baron’s whims. A girl soi^it shelter and the Abbot refused to give her up at the Baron’s demand. His patience was at an end — ^you know the tales they still tell about him.

“He slew the Abbot, burned the monastery, and took the girl. Before he died the Abbot cursed his slayer, and cursed his sons for unborn generations. And it is the nature of this curse that is the serret of our house.

“I may nc* tell you what the curse is.



Do not seek to discover it before it is revealed to you. Wait patiently, and in due time you will be taken by the warders of the secret down the stairway to the underground cavern. And then you will learn 5ie secret of Kralita.”

As the last word passed my father's lips he died, his stem face still set in its harsh lines.

D eep in my memories, I had not noticed our path, but now the dark forms of my guides paused beside a gap in the stone flagging, where a stairway which I had never seen during my wanderings about the castle led into subterranean depths. Down this stairway I was conducted, and presently I came to realize that there was light of a sort — a dim, phosphorescent radiance that came from no recognizable source, and seemed to be less actual light than the accustoming of my eyes to the near-darkness.

I went down for a long time. The stairway turned and twisted in the rock, and the bobbing forms ahead were my only relief from the monotony of the interminable descent. And at last, deep underground, the long stairway ended, and I gazed over the shoulders of my guides at the great door that barred my path. It was roughly chiseled from the solid stone, and upon it were curious and strangely disquieting carvings, symbols which I did not recognize. It swung open, and I passed through and paused, staring about me through a gray sea of mist.

I stood upon a gentle slope that fell away into the fog-hidden distance, from which came a pandemonium of muffled bellowing and high-pitched, shrill squeakings vaguely akin to obscene laughter. Dark, half-glimpsed shapes swam into sight through the haze and disappeared again, and great vague shadows swept overhead on silent wings. Almost beside

me was a long rectangular table of stcme, and at this table two score of men were seated, watching me from eyes that gleamed dully out of deep sockets. My two guides silently took their places among them.

And suddenly the thidc fog began to lift. It was swept raggedly away cm the breath of a chill wind. Hie far dim reaches of the cavern were revealed as the mist swiftly dissipated, and 1 stood silent in the grip of a mighty fear, and, strangely, an equally potent, unaccountable thrill of delight. A part of mj mind seemed to ask, "What horror is this?’* And another part whispered, "You know this place!"

But I could never have seen it before. If I had realized what lay far beneath the castle I could never have slept at night for the fear that would have obsessed me. For, standing silent wHh conflicting tides of horror and ecstasy facing through me, I saw the weird inhabitants of the underground world.

Demons, monsters, unnamable things! Ni^tmare colossi strode bellowing dirough the murk, and amorphous gray things like giant slugs walked upri^t on stumpy legs. Creatures of shapeless soft pulp, beings with flame-shot eyes scatterred over their misshapen bodies like fabled Argus, writhed and twisted (here in the evil glow. Winged things that were not bats swooped and fluttaed in the tenebrous air, whispering sibilantly — whispering in human voices.

Far away at the bottom of the slope I could see the chill gleam of water, a hidden, sunless sea. Shapes mercifully almost hidden by distance and the semidarkness sported and cried, troubling the surface of the lake, the size of whidi I could only conjecture. And a flapping thing whose leathery wings stretched like a tent above my bead swooped and hovered for a moment, staring with Ssun*

THE SECRET OF KRALm

ing ^es, and then darted off and was loct in the gloom.

And all the while, as I shuddered with fear and loathing, within me was this evil glee — this voice which whispered, "You know this place! You belong here! Is it not good to be home?"

1 glanced behind me. The great door had swung silently shut, and escape was impossible. And then pride came to my aid. 1 was a Kralitz. And a Kralitz would not acknowledge fear in the face of the devil himself!

ISTEPPED forward and confronted the warders, who were still seated regarding me intently from eyes in which a smoldering fire seemed to bum. Fighting down an insane dread that I might find before me an array of fleshless skeletons, I ste|^ed to the head of the table, where there was a sort of crude throne, and peered closely at the silent figure on my right.

It was no bare skull at which 1 gazed, but a bearded, deadly-pale face. Tlie curved, voluptuous lips were crimson, looking almost rouged, and the dull eyes stared through me bleakly. Inhuman agony had etched itself in deep lines on the white face, and gnawing anguish smoldered in the sunken eyes. I cannot hope to convey the utter strangeness, the atmosphere of unearthliness that surrounded him. almost as palpable as ffie fetid tomb-stench that welled from his dark garments. He waved a blackswathed arm to the vacant seat at the head of the table, and 1 sat down.

This nightmare sense of imreality! I seemed to be in a dream, with a hidden part of my mind slowly waking from sleep into evil life to take command ot my faculties. The table was set with oldfashioned goblets and trenchers such as had not been used for hundreds of years. There was meat on the tr^chers, and red

36J

liquor in the jeweled gobl^. A heady, overpowering fragrance swam up into my nostrils, mixed with the grave-smell of my companions and the musty odor of a dank and sunless place.

Every white face was turned to me, faces that seemed oddly familiar, although I did not know why. Each face was alike in its blood-red, sensual lips and its expression of gnawing agony, and burning blade eyes like the abysmal pits of Tartarus stared at me until I felt the short hairs stir on my neck. But — I was a Kralitz! I stood up and said boldly in archaic German that somehow came familiarly from my lips, "I am Franz, twenty-first Baron Kralitz. What do you want with me?"

A murmur of approval went around the long table. There was a stir. From rfie foot of the board a huge bearded man arose, a man with a frightful scar that made the left side of his face a horror of healed white tissue. Again the odd thrill of familiarity ran through me; I had seen that face before, and vaguely I remembered looking at it through dim twilight.

The man spoke in the old guttural German. "We greet you, Franz, Baron Kralitz. We grert you and pledge you, Franz — and w'c pledge the House of Kralitz!"

With that he caught up the goblet before him and held it high. All alcmg the long table the black-swathed ones arose, and each held high his jeweled cup, and pledged me. Tliey drank deeply, savoring the liquor, and I made the bow custom demanded. I said, in words that sprang almost unbidden from my mouth;

"I greet you, who are the warders of the seaet of Kralitz, and I pledge you in return.”

All about me, to tfie farthermost reaches of the dim cavern, a hush fell, and the bellows and bowlings, and the insane



tittering of the flying things, were no longer heard. My companions leaned expectantly toward me. Standing alone at the head of the board, I raised my gobl^ and drank. The liquor was heady, exhilarating, with a faintly brackish flavor.

And abruptly I knew why the painracked, ruined face of my companion had seemed familiar; I had seen it often among the portraits of my ancestors, the frowning, disfigured visage of the foimder of the House of Kralita that glared down from the gloom of the great hall. In that fierce white light of revelation I knew my companions for what they were; I recognized them, one by one, remembering their canvas counterparts. But there was a change! Like an impalpable veil, the stamp of ineradicable evil lay on the tortured faces of my hosts, strangely altering their features, so that I could not always be sure I recognized them. One pale, sardonic face reminded me of my father, but I could not be sure, so monstrously altered was its expression.

I was dining with my ancestors — the House of Kralitz!

My cup was still held high, and 1 drained it, for somehow the grim revelation was not entirely unexpected. A strange glow thrilled through my veins, and I laughed aloud for the evil delight that was in me. The others laughed too, a deep-throated merriment like the barking of wolves — tortured laughter from men stretched on the rack, mad laughter in hell! And all through the hazy cavern came the clamor of the devil’s brood! Great figures that towered many spans high rocked with thundering glee, and the flying things tittered slyly overhead. And out over the vast expanse swept the wave of frightful mirth, until the halfseen things in the black waters sent out bellows that tore at my eardrums, and the unseen roof far overhead sent back roaring echoes of the clamor.

And I laughed with them, kui^ed insanely, until I dropped exhausted into my seat and watched tiie scarred man at the other end of the table as he spoke.

"You are worthy to be of our company, and worthy to eat at the same board. We have pledged each other, and you are one of us; we shall eat together.”

And we fell to, tearing like hungry beasts at the succulent white meat in the jeweled trenchers. Strange monsters served us, and at a chill tou^ on my arm I turned to find a dreadful crimson thing, like a skinned child, refilling my goblet. Strange, strange and utterly blasphemous was our feast. We shouted and laughed and fed there in the hazy light, while all around us thundered the evil horde. There was hell beneath Castle Kralitz, and it held high carnival this night.

PRESENTLY we sang a fierce drinkingsong, swinging the deep cupa back and forth in rhythm with our shouted chant. It was an archaic song, but the obsolete words were no handicap, for I mouthed them as though they been learned at my mother's knee. And at the thought of my mother a trembling and a weakness ran through me abruptly, but I banished it with a draft of the beady liquor.

Long, long we shouted and sang and caroused there in the great cavern, and after a time we arose togetiief and trooped to where a narrow, high-ardied bridge spanned the tenebrous waters of the lake. But 1 may not speak of what was at the other end of the bridge, nor of the unnamable things that I saw — and did! I learned of the fungoid, inhuman beings that dwell on far cold Yuggoth, of the Cyclopean shapes that attend unslewing Ohulhu in his submarine city, of the strange pleasures that the followers of leprous, subterranean Yog-Sotfaoth may



possess, and I learned, too, of the unbelievable manner in which lod, the Source, is worshipped beyond the outer galaxies. I plumb^ the blackest pits of hell and aune back — laughing. I was one with the rest of those dark warders, and I joined them in the saturnalia of horror until the scarred man spoke to us again.

“Our time grows short,” he said, his scarred and bearded white face like a gargoyle’s in the half*Ii^t. “We must depart soon. But you are a true Kralitz, Franz, and we shall meet again, and feast again, and make merry for longer than you think. One last pledge!”

I gave it to him. "To the House of Kralitz! May it never fall!"

And with an exultant shout we drained the pungent dregs of the liquor.

Then a strange lassitude fell upon me. With the others I turned my back on the cavern and the shapes that pranced and bellowed and crawled there, and I went up through the carved stone portal. We £led up the stairs, up and up, endlessly, until at last we emerged through the gaping bole in the stone flags and proceeded, a dark, silent company, back through those interminable corridors. The surroundings began to grow strangely fanoiliar, and suddenly I recognized them.

We were in the great burial vaults below the castle, where the Barons Kralitz were ceremoniously entombed. Each Baron had been placed in his stone casket in his separate diamber, and each chamber lay, like beads on a necklace, adjacent to the next, so that we proceeded from the farthermost tombs of the early Barons Kralitz toward the unoccupied v.aults. By immemorial custom, each tomb lay bare, an empty mausoleum, until the time had come for its use, when the great stone cofiin, with the memorial inscription carved upon it, would be carried to its place. It was fitting, indeed, for the seaet of Kralitz to be hidden here.

Abruptly 1 realized that I was alone, save for the bearded man with die disfiguring scar. 'The others had vanished, and, deep in my thoughts, 1 had not missed them. My companion stretched out bis black-swathed arm and halted my progress, and I turned to him questioningly. He said in his sonorous voice, ”I must leave you now. 1 must go back to my own place.” And he pointed to die way whence we had come.

I nodded, for I had already reasgnized my companions for what they were. I knew that each Baron Kralitz had been laid in his tomb, only to arise as a monstrous thing neither dead nor alive, to descend into the cavern below and take part in the evil saturnalia. I realized, too, that with the approach of dawn they had returned to their stone coflins, to lie in a death-like trance until the setting sun should bring brief liberation. My own occult studies had enabled me to recognize these dreadful manifestations.

1 bowed to my companion and would have proceeded on my way to the upper parts of the castle, but he barred my path. He shook his head slowly, his scar hideous in the phosphorescent gloom.

I said, "May I not go yet?”

He stared at me with tortured, smoldering eyes that had looked into hell itself, and he pointed to what lay beside me, and in a flash of nightmare realization I knew the secret of the curse of Kralitz. 'There came to me the knowledge that made my brain a frightful thing in which shapes of darkness would ever swirl and saeam; the dreadful comprehension of ii'hen each Baron Kralitz was mitiaced into the brotherhood of blood. I knew — / knew — ^that no coffin had ever been placed unoccupied in the tombs, and I read upon the stone sarcophagus at ray feet the inscription that made my doom known to me — my own name, **Fvanz^ iweniy-first Baron Kralitz”

By A. CONAN DOYLE

O F ALL the sdcnces which have puzzled the sons of men, none had such an attraction for the learned Professor von Baumgarten as those which relate to psychology and the ill-defined relations be^een mind and matter. A celebrated anatomist, a profound chemist, «id one of the first ph)^iologists in Europe, it was a relief for him to turn from these subj«±s and bring his varied knowledge to bw upon the study of the soul and the mysterious relationship of spirits. At first, when as a young man he began to dip into the secrets of mesmerism, his mind seemed to be wandering in a strange land where all was diaos and darkness, save that here and there some great unexplainable and disconneaed fact loomed out in front of him. As the years passed, however, and as the worthy professor’s stodc of knowledge inaeased, for knowledge begets knowledge as money bears interest, much which had seemed strange and unaccountable began to take another shape in his eyes. New trains of reasoning became

familiar to him, and he perceived connecting links where all had been incomprehensible and startling. By experiments whidi extended over twenty years, he obtained a basis of fat^ upon which it was his ambition to build up a new exact science which should embrace mesmerism, spiritualism, and all cognate subjects. In this he was much helped by his intimate knowledge of the more intricate parts of animal physiology which tr^ of nerve currents and the working of the brain; for Alexis von Baumgartoi was regius professor of physiology at the University of Keinplatz, and had all the resources of the laboratory to aid him in his profound researches.

Professor von Baumgarten was tall and thin, with a hatchet-face and steelgray eyes, which were singularly bright and penetrating. Much thought had furrowed his forehead and contracted his heavy eyebrows, so that he appeared to wear *a perpetual frown, which often misled people as to his character; for though astute he was tender-hearted. He



was popular among the students, who would gather round him after his Iec> tores and listen eagerly to his strange theories. Often he would call for volunteers from among them in order to conduct some experiment, so that eventually there was hardly a lad in the class who had not, at one time or another, been thrown into a mesmeric trance by his professor.

Of all these young devotees of science there was none who equaled in enthusiasm Fritz von Hartmann. It had often seemed strange to his fellow students that wild, reckless Fritz, as dashing a young fellow as ever hailed from the l^inelands, should devote the time and trouble which he did in reading up abstruse works and in assisting the professor in his strange experiments. The fact was, however, that Fritz was a knowing and long-headed fellow. Months before, he had lost his heart to young Flise, the blue-eyed, yellow-haired daughter of the lecturer. Although he had succeeded in learning from her lips that she was not indifferent to his suit, he had never dared to announce himself to her family as a formal suitor. Hence he would have found it a difficult matter to see his young lady had he not adopted the expedient of making himself useful to the professor. By this means he frequently was asked to the old man’s house, where he willingly submitted to be experimented upon in any way as long as there was a diance of his receiving one bright glance from the eyes of Elise or one touch of her little hand.

Young Fritz von Hartmann was a handsome lad enough. There were broad acres, too, which would descend to him when his father died. To many he would have seemed an eligible suitor; but Madam frowned upon his presence in the house, and lectured the professor at times on his allowing such a wolf to

prowl around their Iamb. To tell the truth, Fritz had an evil name in Keinplatz. Never was there a riot or due), or any other mischief afoot, but the young Rhinelander figured as a ringleader in it. No one used more free and violent language, no one drank more, no one played cards more habitually, no one was more idle, save in the one solitary subject. No wonder, then, that the good Frau Projessorin gathered her jraulein under her wing, and resented the attentions of such a matwais sujet. As to the worthy lecturer, he was too much engrossed by his strange studies to form an opinion upon the subject one way or the other.

F or many years there was one question which had continually obtruded itself upon his thoughts. All his experiments and his theories turned upon a single point. A hundred times a day the professor asked himself whether it was possible for the human spirit to exist apart from the body for a time and then to return to it once again. When the possibility first suggested itself to him his scientific mind had revolted from it. It clashed too violently with preconceived ideas and the prejudices of his early training. Gradually, however, as he proceeded farther and farther along the pathway of original researdi, his mind shook off its old fetters and became ready to face any conclusion which could reconcile the facts. There were many things which made him believe that it was possible for mind to exist apart from matter. At last it occurred to him that by a daring and original experiment the question might be definitely decided.

*'It is evident,” he remarked in his celebrated article upon invisible entities, which appeared in the Ketnplatz W ocbenlkhe Medtcdschrift about this time, and which surprized the whole



scienti&: world — ”it is evident that under certain conditions the soul or mind does separate itself from the body. In the case of a mesmerized person, the body lies in a cataleptic condition, but the spirit left it. Perhaps you reply that the soul is there, but in a dormant con* dition. I answer that this is not so, other* wise how can one account for the condi* tion of clairvoyance, which has fallen into disrepute through the knavery of certain scoundrels, but which can easily be shown to be an undoubted fact?

"I have been able myself, with a sensitive subject, to obtain an accurate description of what was going on in another room or another house. How can such knowledge be accounted for on any hypothesis save that the soul of the subject has left the body and is wander* ing through spw^? For a moment it is recalled by the voice of the operator and says what it has seen, and then wings its way once more throu^ the air. Since the spirit is by its very nature invisible, we cannot see these comings and goings, but we see their effect in the body of the subject, now rigid and inert, now struggling to narrate impressions which could never have come to it by natural means.

*'Th€K is only cme way whidi I can see by whidi the faa can be demonstrated. Although we in the flesh are unable to see these spirits, yet our own spirits, oiuld we separate them from the body, would be conscious of the presence of others. It is my intention, therefore, shortly to mesmerize one of my pupils. I sliall then mesmerize myself in a manner which has become easy to me. After that, if my theory holds good, my spirit will have no difficulty in meeting and communing with the spirit of my pupil, both being separated from the body. I hope to be able to communicate the result of this interesting experiment in an early

number of the Keinplatz Wochenlich* Medicalschrift/'

When the good professor finally fulfilled his promise, and piffilished an ac* count of what occurred, the narrative was so extraordinary that it was received with general incredulity. The tone of some of the papers was so offensive in their comments upon the matter that the angry savant declared that he would never open his mouth again or refer to the subject in any way — a promise which he has faithfully kept. This narrative has been compiled, however, from the most authentic sources, and the events cited in it may be relied upon as sub* stantially correct.

I T HAPPENED, then, that shortly after the time when Professor von Baum* garten conceived the idea of the abovenrentioned experiment, he was w'alking thoughtfully homeward after a long day in the laboratory, when he met a crowd of roystering students who had just streamed out from a beer-house. At the head of them, half intoxicated and very noisy, was young Fritz von Hartmann. The professor would have passed them, but his pupil ran aaoss and intercepted him.

’'Heh! my worthy master,” he said, taking the old man by the sleeve, and leading him down the road with him. "There is something that I have to say to you, and it is easier for me to say it now, when the good beer is humming in my head, than at another time.”

"What is it, then, Fritz?” the physiologist asked, looking at him in mild surprize.

"I hear, mein Herr, that you are about to do some wondrous experiment in which you hope to take a man’s soul out of his t^dy, and then to put it back again. Is it not so?”

"It is true, Fritz.”

W. T.— 7


^69

"And have you considered, my dear sir, that you may have some difficulty in finding someone on whom to try this? PotztoMsend! Suppose that the soul went out and would not come bade. That would be a bad business. Who is to take the risk?”

”But, Fritz,” die professor cried, very much startled by this view of the matter, "I had relied upon your assistance in the attempt. Surely you will not desert me. Consider the honor and glory.”

"Consider the fiddlesticks!” the student cried angrily. ”Am I to be paid always thus? Did I not stand two hours upon a glass insulator while you poured electricity into my body? Have you not stimulated my jArenic nerves, besides ruining my digestion with a galvanic current round my stomach? Four-and-thirty times you have mesmerized me, and what have I got from all this? Nothing. And now you wish to take my soul out, as you would tdee the works from a watch. It is more than fiesh and blood can stand.”

"Dear, dear!” the professor cried in great distress. “ITiat is very true, Fritz. I never thought of it before. If you can but suggest how I can compensate you, you will find me ready and willing.”

"Then listen,” said Fritz, solemnly. "If you will pledge your word that after this experiment I may have the hand of your daughter, then I am willing to assist you; but if not, I shall have nothing to do with it. These are my only terms.”

"And what would my daughter say to this?” the professor exclaimed, after a pause of astonishment.

"Elise would welcome it,” the young man replied. "We have loved each other long."

"Then she shall be yours,” the physiologist said with decision, "for you are a go<^-hearted young man, and one of the best neurotic subjects that i have ever W. T.— 8

known — that is when you are not under the infiuence of alcohol. My experiment is to be performed upon the fourth of next month. You will attend at die physiological laboratory at twelve o’clock. It will be a great occasion, Fritz. Von Gruben is coming from Jena, and Hintcrstein from Basle. The chief men of science of all South Germany will be there.”

”1 shall be punctual," the student said, briefly; and so the two parted.

T he professor did not exaggerate when he spoke of the widespread interest excited by his novel psychophysiological experiment. Long before the hour had arrived the room was filled with a galaxy of talent. Besides the celebrities whom he had mentioned, there had come from London the great Professor Lurcher, who had just established his reputation by a remarkable treatise upon cerebral centers. Several great lights of die Spiritualistic body had also come a long distance to be present, as had a Swedenborgian minister, who considered that the proceedings might throw some light upon the doctrines of the Rosy Cross.

There was considerable applause from this eminent assembly upon the appearance of Professor von Baumgarten and his subjed: upon the platform. The lecturer, in a few well-chosen words, explained what his views were, and how he proposed to test them.

"I hold,” he said, "that when a person is under the influence of mesmerism, his spirit is for the time released from his body, and I challenge anyone to put forward any other hypothesis which will account for the fact of dairvoj^ce. I rfierefore hope th^ upon mesmerizing my young friend here, and then putting myself into a trance, our spirits may be able to commune together, though out



bodies lie still and inert. After a time nature will resume her sway, our spirits will return into our respeaive bodies, and ail will be as before. With your kind permission, we shall now proaed to attempt the experiment.”

Tlie applause was renewed at this speech, and the audience settled down in expectant silence. With a few rapid passes the professor mesmerized the young man, who sank back in his diair, pale and rigid. He then took a bright globe of glass from his podcet, and by concentrating his gaze upon it and making a strong mental effort, he succeeded in throwing himself into the same condition. It was a strange and impressive sight to see the old man and the young sitting together in the same cataleptic state. Whither, then, had their souls fied? That was the question which presented itself to each and every one of the spectators.

Five minutes passed, and then ten, and then fifteen, and then fifteen more, while the professor and his pupil sat stiff and stark upon the platform. During that time not a sound was heard from the assembled savante, but every eye was bent upon the two pale faces, in search of the first signs of returning consciousness.

Nearly an hour had elapsed before the patient watchers were rewarded. A faim flush came back to the cheeks of Professor von Baumgarten. The soul was coming bade <xice more to its earthly tenement. Suddenly he stretched out his long thin arms, as one awaking from sleep, and rubbing his eyes, stood up from his chair and gazed about him as though he hardly realized where he was.

**Tausend Teufel/*’ he exclaimed, rapping our a tremendous South German oath, to the great astonishment of his audience and to the disgust of the Swedenborgian. ’Where the Henker am I then, and what in thunder has occurred?

Oh, yes, I remember now. One of ffiese nonsensical mesmeric experiments. Tlicre is no result this time, for 1 remember nothing at all since I became unconscious; so you have had all your long journeys for nothing, my learned friend^ and a very good Joke, too;” at whidi the regius professor of physiology burst into a roar of laughter and slapped his thigh in a highly indecorous fashion.

The audience were so enraged at this unseemly behavior on the part of their host, that there might have been a considerable disturfjance, had it not been for the judicious interference of young Fritz von Hartmann, who had now recovered from his lethargy. Stepping to the front of the platform, the young man apologized for the conduct of his companion.

‘T am sorry to say,” he said, “that he is a harum-scarum sort of fellow, although he appeared so grave at the coco mencement of this experiment. He is still suffering from mesmeric reaction, and is hardly accountable for his words. As to the experiment itself, I do not consider it to be a failure. It is very possible that our spirits may have been communmg in space during this hour; but, unfortunately, our gross bodily memory is distinct from our spirit, and we cannot recall what has occurred. My energies shall now be devoted to devising sqok means by which spirits may be able to recollect what CKXurs to them in their free state, and I trust that when I have worked this out, I may have the pleasure of meeting you all once again in this h^ and demonstrating to you the resuk.”

This address, coming from so young a student, caused considerable astomahment among the audience, and some were inclined to be offended, thinking that he assumed rather too much importance. The majority, however, looked iq)on him as a young man of great promise, and many comparisons were made as tkqr left



tfie ball between his dignified conduct and the levity of his professor, who during the above remarks was laughing heartily in a corner, by no means abashed at the failure of the experiment.

Now although all these learned men were filing out of the lecture-room under the m^ressioh that they had seen nothing of note, as a matter of fact one of the most wonderful things in the whole history of the world had just occurred before their vexy eyes. Professor von Baumgarten had been so far correct in his theory chat both his spirit and th^ of his pupil had been for a time absent from his body. But here a strange and unforeseen complication had occurred. In their return the spirit of Frit 2 von Hartmann had entered kito the body of Alexis von Baumgarten, and that of Alexis von Baumgarten had taken up its abode in the frame of Fritz von Hartmann. Hence the slang and scurrility which issued from the lips of the serious professor, and hence alk> the weighty words and grave statements whidj fell from the careless student. It was aa unprecedented ev^t, yet no one knew of it, least of all those whom it concerned.

T he body of the professor, feeling conscious suddenly of a great dryness about the back of the throat, sallied out into the street, still chuckling to himself over tfje result of the experiment, for the soul of Fritz within was reckless at the tliou^ of the bride whom he had won so easily. His first impulse was to go up to the house and see her, but on second thou^its he came to the conclusion that it would be best to stay until Madam Bauttgarten should be informed by her husband of the agreement which had been s^de. He therefore made his way down to the Griincr Mann, which was one of the favorite trysting-places of the wilder students, and ran, boisterously

waving his cane in the air, into die little parlor, where sat Spiegler and Muller, and half a dozen other boon companions.

"Ha, ha! ray boys," he shouted. "I knew 1 should find you here. Drink up, every one of you, and call for what you like; I'm going to stand treat today."

Had the green man who is depicted upon the sign-post of that well-known inn suddenly marched into the room and called for a bottle of wine, the students could not have been more amazed than they were by this unexpected entry of their revered professor. They were so astonished that for a minute or two they glared at him in utter bewilderment without being able to make any reply to his hearty invitation.

"Donner und Blitzen!” shouted the professor, angrily. "What the deuce is the matter with you, then? You sit there like a set of stuck pigs staring at me. What is it, then?"

"It is the unexpected honor," stammered Spiegel, who was in the diair.

"Honor — rubbish!” said the professor, testily. "Do you tliink that just because I happen to have been exhibiting mesmerism to a parcel of old fossils, I am therefore too proud to associate with dear old friends like you? Come out of that chair, Spiegel, my boy, for I shall preside now, B^r, or wine, or schnapps, my lads —call for what you like, and put it all down to me.”

Never was there such an afternoon in the Griiner Mann. The foaming fiagons of lager and the green-nedeed bottle of Rhenish circulated merrily. By degrees the students lost their shyness in the presence of their professor. As for him, he shouted, he sang, be roared, he balanced a long tobacco-pipe upon his nose, and offered to run a hundred yards against any member of the company. The kellner and the bar-maid whispered to each oth« outside the door their astonishment at



such proceedings on the part of a regius professor of the ancient university of Keinplatz. They had still more to whisper about afterward, for the learned man cracked the kellnet’s aown, and kissed the bar-maid behind the kitchen door.

"Gentlemen," said the professor, standing up, albeit somewhat totteringly, at the end of the table, and balancing his high, old-fashioned wine-glass in his bony hand, "I must now explain to you what is the cause of this festivity."

"Hear! hear!" roared the students, hammering their beer-glasses against the table; "a speech, a speech — silence for a speech!"

"The fact is, my friends,” said the professor, beaming through his spectacles, *T hope very soon to be married.”

"Married?” cried a student, bolder than the others. "Is Madam dead, then?”

"Madam who?”

‘"Why, Madam von Baumgarten, of course."

"Ha, hal" laughed the professor; "I can see, then, chat you know all about my former difficulties. No, she is not dead, but I have reason to believe that she will not oppose my marriage.”

"That is very accommodating of her," remarked one of the company.

"In fact," said the professor, "I hope that she will now be induced to aid me in getting a wife. She and I never took to each other very much; but now I hope all that may be ended, and when I marry she will come and stay with me."

"What a happy family!” exclaimed some wag.

"Yes, indeed; and I hope you will come to my wedding, all of you. 1 won’t mention names, but here is to my little bride!” and the professor waved his glass in the air.

"Here’s to his little bride!” roared the roysterers, with shouts of laughter. "Here's her health. Sie soil Uben —

hochl’* And so the fun waxed still more fast and furious, while each young fellow followed the professor’s example, and drank a toast to the girl of his heart.

WHILE all this festivity had been going on at the Griiner Mann, a very different scene had been enacted elsewhere. Young Fritz von Hartmann, with a solemn face and a reserved manner, had, after the experiment, consulted and adjusted some mathematical instruments; after which, with a few peremptory words to the janitors, he had walked oirt into the street and wended his way slowly in the direction of the house of the professor. As he walked he saw von Althaos, the professor of anatomy, in front of him, and quickening his pace he overtook him.

"I say, von Althaus,” he excl^med, tapping him on the sleeve, "you were asking me for some information the other day concerning the middle coat of

the cerebral arteries. Now I find ”

"Donnetivettefl” shouted von Akhaus. who was a peppery old fellow. "What the deuce do you mean by your is^>ertinence? I’ll have you up before the Academical Senate for this, sir;" with which threat he turned on his heel and hurried away.

Von Hartmann was moch surprined at this reception. "It's on account •£ this failure of my experiment," be caid to himself, and continued moodi]^ on his way.

Fresh surprizes were in store for him. however. He was hurrying al(Xig when he was overtaken by two students. These youths, instead of raising their caps or showing any other sign of respect, gave a wild whoop of delight the insttfit that th^ saw him, and rushing at hiss, seized him by each arm and commenced dragging him along with them.

''Gott In Hlmmeir roared von Hartmann. "What is the meaning of dits unWEIRD TALES


paralleled insult? Where are yon taking

me?”

“To crack a bottle of wine with us,” said the two students. “Come along! That is an invitation which you have never refused,”

“I never heard of such insolence in my life!” cried von Hartmann. “Let go my arms! I shall certainly have you rusticated for this. Let me go, I say!” and he kidted furiously at his captors.

*'Oh, if you dioose to turn ill-tempered, you may go where you like,” the students said, releasing him. 'We can do very well without you.”

“I know you! I’ll pay you out!” said von Hartmann furiously, and continued in the direction which he imagined to be his own home, much incensed at the two episodes which had occurred to him on the way.

Now, Madam von Baumgarten, who was looking out of the window and wondering why her husband was late for dinner, was considerably astonished to see the young student come stalking down the road. As already remarked, she had a great antipathy to him, and if ever he ventured into the house it was on suflferance, and under the protection of the professor. Still more astonished was she, therefore, when she beheld him undo the wicket-gate and stride up the garden path with the air of one who is master of the situation. She could hardly believe her eyes, and hastened to the door with all her maternal instincts up in arms. From the upper windows the fair Elise had also observed this daring move upon the part of her lover, and her heart beat cjuick with mingled pride and consternation.

“Good-day, sir,” Madam Baumgarten remarked to the intruder, as she stood in glcwrny majesty in the open doorway.

“A very fine day indeed, Martha,” returned the other. “Now, don't stand there like a statue of Juno, but bustle

MIDWEST D«p*. 0^7. CinciHRotl. OW«

WuhcM ohkgMCo c FREE catilog *nd XMay FREE tnal

Norn*.

Gamblers Secrets Exposed

New Botf. BEAT THE OBBAT. 4 sew flsrd n&tac eearetf. WMu Iflk. JnrUibte Ink. Xriy-eeetlirn. Know tw e«t!, Sb<I, trd wEhoat UMnc eerd «ff UO. E*oe. UlMWk. Pimn. Mekliw tnr point wlU) dice. Sadreu eiDoeei]. lUaet. Vcaej nuklnt nwelilet. Ontt kxtiu. Win. Send tl f«r Th« Che4t.'' JOHNSTON'S BOOI^ B«S a4l8*W. HuaM City.

Mo.



about md get the dinaer leadf^ foe I am well-oigb starved."

"Martha! Dinner!’* ejaculated the lady, failing back in astonishment.

’'Yes, dinner, Martha, dinner!" howled von Hartmann, who was becoming irritable. *ls there anything wonderful in. that request when a man has been out all day? rU wait in the dining-room. Anything will do. Sefainken, and sausage, and prunes — any little dung that happens to be about. There you are, standing staring again. Woman, will you or will you not rtir your legs?"

This last ^dress, delivered with a perfea shri^ of rage, had the effect of sendmg good Madam Baumgaiten dying along the passage and through the kitchen, where she locked herself iq) in the scullery and went into violent hysterics. In the jBeantime von Hartmann strode uito the room and threw himself down upon the sofa in the worst of tempers.

"Eli^r’ he shouted. "Confound the girl! Elisel"

Thus roughly summoned, the young lady came timidly downstairs and into the presence of her lover.

"Dearest!” she aied, throwing her arms round him, know this is ail done for my sake! It is a ruse in order to see me."

Von Hartmann's Indignation at this fresh attadc up<ui him was so great that he became speechless for a minute from rage, and could only glare and shake his fists, while he struggled in her embrace. When he at last regained his utterance, he indulged in such a bellow of passion diat the young lady dropped back, petrified with fear, into an armchair.

"Never have I passed such a day in my life,’* von Hartmann cried, stamping upon the 6oof. "My experiment has failed. Von Althaus has insulted me. Two ^dents have dragged me along the public load. My wife nearly faints when

I ask her for dinner, and my dau^tet hies at me and hugs me like a grizzly bear."

"You are ill, dear," the young lady aied. 'Your mind is wandering. You have not even kissed me once."

"No, and I don’t intend to, either,” von Hartmann said with decision. 'You ought to be ashamed of yourself. Why don’t you go and fetch my slippers, and help your mother to dish the di^er?”

"And is it for this," Elise aied, burying her face in her handkerchief — "is it for this that I have loved you passionately for upward of ten months? ^ it for this that I have braved my mother's wrath? Oh, you have broken ray heart; I am sure you have!" and she sobbed hysterically.

"I can't stand much more of t^,*" roared von Hartmann furiously. "What the deuce does the girl mean? What did I do ten months ago which inspired you with such a particular affection for. me? If you are really so very fond, you would do better to run down and End the schinken and some bread, instead of talking all this nonsense.”

"Oh, my darling!" cried the unhappy maiden, throwing herself into the arms of what she imagined to be her lover, "you do but joke in order to frighten youc little Elise."

N ow it chanced that at the moment of this unexpected embrace von Hartmann was still leaning back against the end of the sofa, which, like much German furniture, was in a somewhat rideety condition. It also chanced that beneath this end of the sofa there stood tank full of water in which the physiologist was conduaing certain expaiments upon the ova of fish, and which he kept in his drawing-room in order to insure an equdjie temperature. The additional weight of the maiden, combined with the impetus with which she hurled herself



upon him, caused the precafious piece of furniture to give way, and the body of the unfortunate student was hurled backward into the tank, in which his head and shoulders were firmly wedged, while his lower extremities fiapped helplessly about in the air. This was the last straw. Extricating himself with some difficulty from his unpleasant position, von Hartmann gave an inarticulate yell of fury, and dashing out of the room, in spite of the entreaties of Elise, he seized his hat and rushed o£F into the town, all dripping and disheveled, with the intention of seeking in some inn the food and comfort which he could not find at home.

As the spirit of von Baumgarten, encased in the body of von Hartmann, strode down the winding pathway which led down to the little town, brooding angrily over his many wrongs, he became aware that an elderly man was approaching him who appeared to be m an advanced stare of intoxication. Von Hartmann waited by the side of the road and watched this individual, who came stumbling along, reeling from one side of the road to the other, and singing a student song in a very husky and drunken voice. At first his interest was merely excited by the fact of seeing a man of so venerable an appearance in such a disgraceful condition, but as he approached nearer he became convinced that he knew the other well, though he could not recall when or where he had met him. This impression became so strong with him, that when the stranger came abreast of him he stepped in front of him and took a ^}od look at his features.

"Well, sonny,'* said the drunken man, surveying von Hartmann, and swaying about in front of him, "where the Henker have I seen you before? I know you as well as I know myself. Who the deuce are you?”

SPECIAL MONEY^AVING SUBSCRIPTION OFFER | One Year OZ iarasa @ ZSc = $3J)0 — you save SSc) $ 2.50 I

(12 iaiusa @ 25c = $3J10— YOU SAVE 5<lc)

I Two Years (24 imcs @ 2Sc = $6J0— you save $22)0) $ 4.(M) I I Three Years 00 @ 25 c = $ 9210 — you save $ 4210 ) $ 5.00 |

I To any address in the United States or possessions I

g Central America. Cuba. Mexico. South America and Spain If

I — - - — ^ I

H For Canada. Newfoundland and Labrador odd 25c a year extra for g

S postage. To all other countries add SQc a year extra tor postagob ^

ITHIS COUPON FOR SUBSCRIBING"

WEIRD TALES. 840 N. Midiigon Ave.. Chicago. DL. U. S. A.

Enclosed find $ for which please enter my stdDscripiioo to

WEIRD TALES for. Nome

g Address..

i

City.

..—years to begin with the November

..State..

J76


"I am Professor von Baumgartcn,” said the student "May 1 ask who you are? I am strangely familiar with your features.”

"You should never teU lies, young man,** said the other. "You’re certainly not the professor, for he is an ugly snufFy old chap, and you are a big broad-shouldered young fellow. As to myself, 1 am Fritz von H^tmano, at your service.”

"That you certainly are not!” exclaimed die body of von Hartmann. "You might very be bis father. But huUo, sir, are you aware that you are wearing my scuds and watch-diain?”

'^Donnerwetter!” hioruped the other. "If those are not the trousers for which my tailor is about to sue me, may 1 never taste beer a^in!’*

Now as von Hartmann, overwhelmed by the many strange things which had occurred to him that day, passed his hand over his forehead and cast his eyes downward, he chanced to catch the redection of his own face in a pool which the rain had left upon the road. To his utter astonidiment he perceived that his face was that of a youth, diat his dress was that of a fashionable young student, iuid tiiat in every way he was the antithesis of the grave and scholarly dgure in which his mind was wont to dwell. In an instant his active brain ran over the series of events which had occurred and sprang to die conclusion. He fairly reeled under the blow.

* "Hhnmeir he aied, *T see it all. Our souls are in fhe wrong bodies. 1 am you and yoa are I. My theory is proved — but at what an expense! Is the most scholarly mind in Europe co go about with this friwloos exterior? the labors of a lifethae are ruined!” and he smote his breast in his despair.

"I say,” remarked the real von Hartmataa from the body of the professor, *T quite see the force of your remarks,

but don’t go knocking my body about like that. You received it in excellent condition, but I perceive you have wet ic and bruised it, and spilled snud over my ruffled shirt-front”

"It matters little,” the other said, moodily. "Sudi as we are, so must we stay. My theory is triumphantly proved, but the cost is terrible.”

"if I tiiought so,” said the spirit of the student, "it would be hard indeed. What could I do with these aiff old limbs, and how could 1 woo Elise and persuade her that I was not her father? No, tliank heaven, in spite of die beer which has upset me more than it ever could upset my real self, I can sec a way out of it.”

"How?” gasped the professor.

"Why, by repeating the experiment. Liberate our souls once more, and the chances are th^ they will find d^lr back into their respective bodies.”

N o DROWNING man could dutch more ea^rly ^ a straw than did von Baumgarten’s spirit at this suggestion. In feverish haste he dragged his own frame to the side of the road and threw it into a mesmeric trance; he then extraaed the crystal ball from tiie pocket, and managed to bring himself into the same condition.

Some students and peasants who chanced to pass during the next hour were much astonished to see the worthy professor of physiology and his favorite student both sitting upon a very muddy bank and both completely insensible. fore the hour was up quite a crowd had assembled, and they were discussing the advisability of sending for an ambulance to convey the pair to a hc^pital, when the learned savant opened his eyes and gazed vacantly around him. For an instant he seemed to forget bow he had come there, but next moment he astonished his audbWEIRD TALES


ence hf waving his skinny arms «6ove his head and dying out in a voice of rapcure, set gedankt! I am myself

again! I feel I am!” Nor was the axnazemeed lessened when the student, springing to his feet, burst into the same cry, and the two performed a sort of pas de joie in the middle of the road.

For some time after that people had soiMc suspicion of the sanity of both the actors in this strange episode. When the professof published his experiences in the Medudsebrijt as he had promised, he was met by an intimation, even from his colleagues, that he would do well to have his mind cared for, and that another sudi pidDlication would certainly consign him to a madhouse. The student also found it wisest to be silent about the matter.

When the worthy lecturer returned home that night he did not receive the cordial welcome which he might have

looked for after bis strange adventures. On the contrary, he was roundly upbraided by both hb female rel^ives for smelling of drink and tobacco, and also for being absent while a young scapegrace invaded the house and insulted its occupants.

It was long before the domestic atmosphere of the lecturer's house resumed its normal quiet, and longer still before the genial face of von Hartmann was seen beneath its roof. Perseverance, however, conquers every obst^e, and the student eventually succeeded in pacifying the enraged ladies and in est^lishing himself upon the old footing. He has now no longer any cause to fear the enmity of Madam, for he b Hauptmann von Hartmann of the Emperor’s own Uhlans, and his loving wife Elbe has already presented him witfi two little Uhlans as a vbtble sign and token of her aHection.


Bec&tise of the mior requests foe back issues of WEmn Tales, the publi^eis do their best to keep a sufficient supply on hand to meet all demands. This magazine was established early ia 1925 and there has been a steady drain on the supply of back copies ever sintx. At present, we have the following back numben on hand for sale:

laat

lass


Jan.

Jan,

Jaiu

Feb.

Feb.

Feb.

7^.

Feb.

Mar.

M&r.

Mar.

Mar.

A|ir.

Apr.

Apr.

May

May

May

June

June

June -

Jane

juiy

July

July

July

Aux.

Auf.

Aug.

Aug.

SapC

Sept

Sept

Oct

Ocl.

Oet.

Nov.

Nw,

Nov.

Nov.

Dec.

Dee.

Dec.

Dec.

‘these back numben contain many fasdnating stories. If you are interested in obtaining adf of the bade copies on this list please hurry your order because we can not guarantee that Ac list will be as complete as it now is within the next 30 days. The price on all bad: issties ia 25c per copy. Mail all orders to:


840 N. NSchigan Ave. Chicago, IlHnoia, U. S. A.

L-- ■

T he tragic death of Robert E. Howard has called forth a chorus of praise from discerning critics who have appreciated the genuine literary value of his work, H. P. Loveaaft, one of the acknowledged masters of weird fiction, whose keenly analytical mind has started many young writers on literary careers, makes the following comment on Howard's work; “Howard’s death forms weird fiction’s worst blow since the passing of good old Canevin [Henry S. Whitehead} in 1932. Scarcely anyti^y else in the pulp field had ^ite the driving zest and spontaneity of Kobert E. Howard. He put himself into everything he wrote — and even when he made outward concessions to pulp standards he had a wholly unique inner force and sincerity which oroke through the surface and placed the stamp of bis personality on the ultimate produa. How he could surround primal megalithic cities with an aura of seon-old fear and neaomancy! And his recent Black Canaan (WT's best story in the last three or so issues) is likewise magnificent in a mote realistic way — reflecting a genuirte regional background and giving a dutdungly powerful picture of the horror that stalks through the mossdiun^ shadowcursed, serpent-ridden swamps of the farther South. Others' efforts seem pallid by contrast Weird fiction certainly has occasion to mourn.”

To which E. Hoffmann Pric^ the only Weird Tales author who knew Howard persoimlly, odds: “I know of few people whose sudden death would be such a savage kick on the chin. Lovecraft says it is the saddest blow to writers since the death of Henry S. Whitehead — and I answer, saying, "Be d^ned to writing — it's a lot worse olow to anyone who knew Bob and his parents.' Bob Howard was as complex and likable A

m

character as one would meet in many a long day’s mardi. Tbere is going to be much wailing among the fantasy fans, and just as much among those who read only Howard’s vivid action stories in other books — but the heaviest of it is coming from those wko met him in his native territory.”

Howard wrote his own epitaph ^rtly before his death, when he cypM me follo>^- ing couplet, the second line of \(hkh is taken from the well-known poem Ernest Dowson:

All fled — all done, so lift me on the pyre;

The Feast is over and the lamps ezpir^

Couau^ft Strange Lands

Irvin T. Gould, of Philadelphia, writes} “It may be rather late to mention it, but your May issue of Weird Tales is ihe best collection of stories 1 have ever seen between your front and back covers. Child of the winds and The Room of Sbadom top a splendid collection of weiro tales.... Glad to hear that Robert £. Howard is coming to the fore with another Conan story. I was afraid the rascally old barbarian was going to sink down in slothful ease upon the Aquilonian throne and not fumi^ R. R H. with any more weird adventure material, but I guess you can’t keep that wild Cimmefian blood quiet; so more power to Wm. I can’t take enough space to give bouquets to all that race it, so I have )ust mentioned those that have particularly impressed me. Bring on that Conan story. I’m all agog. Couldn’t you prevail upon Howard to furnish us a map of all chose strange lands that have felt the swish of that Gmmerian sword? Or would that be in keeping with a weird tale? I leave it to you.” [Mr. Howard F«ep«red a map showing the strange lands 'risited by Conan, when be wrote that weird



novel. The Hour of the The

Editor.]


The Falling Method

Corwin Stidcney, Jr., of Belleville, New Jersey, writes: "The July issue is cxalient. I rank it second only to the April issue when rating the seven published so far this year. Lost Paradise and Necromancy in Naat are in a virtual de for dais month’s honors. Moore is practically unbeatable, while Clark Ashton Smith’s work is always of the finest Quality. Since each of tiiese two stories is so difierent from the other, both in theme and in the style in which it was written, I do not tmdertake n> evaluate one above the other. Let it suffice to say that I enjoyed both hugely, and would appreciate nothing more than a story by cadi of them in each issue. Ronal Kayser constructed a vivid, stir* ring srory in The Unborn. Seldom have I read one more fascinating. Edmond Hamil* ton disappointed me with When the World Slept. It was endrely too obvious; I hadn’t read two pages before i had guessed the story’s outcome. 1 cannot at all understand how chis yarn can possibly be called weird. It mi^ pass— on a dark night — as sdeccefiaioQ. But weird fiction — never! The other tales are good, especially Loot of the Vampire and The Return of Sarah Purcell. I haven't yet read the new serial or the reprint.... Peculiar thing: three of the victims in this month’s stories — in The Return of Saeah Purcell, The Unborn, and Kharu Knows All, CO be exaa — 'got theirs' by way of the falhng method — either by jumping out a window or by falling down a flight of stairs, as in the case of Emma in The Return of Sarah Purcell. I wonder how many dtsceroifig readers will notice that Tim Orewc (in Kharu Knows Alt ) chose Kharu as his new name because it and his real name, Carewe, are phonetically alike.”

French Phrases

Gertrade Hemken, of Chicago, contributes the following comments: "Now I’m gonna unload something from my mind that’s been rankling me for yars ’n’ yars. So often in stories one runs across French phrases, and it is taken for granted the reader knows what they mean, so no explanation is ofieted. All well and good. However, when one txses a spriiddiag of other foreign phrases, unless die au&M offers cransl^os immediately

About your boatseas, travel, ebangea. matrimony, love affairs, friends, enemlee, lucky days and many otbw Interesting and important affairs of your life as indicated by astrology. Send for your special Astral Reading. All work strictly aclentlflc. Individual and guaranteed satisfactory. VOR MANT YEARS PRIVATE ASTROLOGIOAl- ADVISER TO ROYALTY and the ELITE. WHte name, address and date of birth plainly. No money required, but it you like send 30 cents (stamps;

No Cktlns). to help defray costa Address: PUNDIT TABORE, (D^ 43d-B>. Upper Forjett Street, BOMBAY VII. BRITISH INDIA. Postage to India Is Sc.

I lin* or

jrerr i»*s

... prmpecti Tl>eM msr^sw tsIum SELL ON SlQHTt "N« Rltx" Gtesrintee tuare* ntltfMilm or mofN^ bsek. Unlisstsblt qadltTl AjBsslns luw priclll WB PAT POSTAOK. Compiets line of NEW PALL NECKWEAK

E tired tl to It. SO dosen. Alio Uufler, Tie «nd Haadnehlef mu. OVER 100% PROPIT! Big wtrs ee»- fnei frith Patented Slyde-Oe teady Cled Um. Send TODAY for free Illustrated Drerripttre Catalog ai^ EbBEB FRBB SAAlPliB SWATCRKS. See why our sses are BIGOEST MCH4IET-MASYIIS. Write NOW I SAMPIS

BOULEVARD CRAVATS, 22W.aat»..Pe>t.ll-». HEW YORK

Disease oi Blood

CONTROLS

An effective treatment against dtseasa of blood. Used for 60 years. Etome Treatment. Hundreds of Endorsements. Whatever the cause, however far advanced, write for FREE Book.


Save

757c

Boy your Drug RondrSes, Speetelties, suppllee. Novelties, etc„ direct from manufaeturcr through our Mail-Order Dept. AU personal itome are mailed postpaid by ns In plaia sealed package. We have everytlttag. Send for FREE, illnstrated mail-order cutalor.



after, a great hue and cry arises, a clamorous howl of derision is sent up by the readers, telling the writer to remember this is America and to speak United States. (I’ve had experience in the above matter after introducing German into a manusaipt during high school days.) So!!! Now for the benefit of the readers who are ignorant of Fran^ais, either by choice or otherwise (or am I the only one who does not know the language?), is it too much to ask the writers to pen a few words extra of translation? For instance — 'Wie gehts — How goes it?' Taint so much work now — is it? And if I see mudi more of that French rubbish, I’m gonna hie me down to your editorial offices and rub tho^ writers’ noses in a few German verbs and tenses! And now for a pladd comment on the bizarre and unusual: 1 am getting to like Clark Ashton Smith better ’n’ better — his stories are ac^’ring a strangeness new to his former tales; c. g. — hiecromdficy in Naat. A new land, a new fate to befall viaims of the wizards, braving a similarity to Zombie — but so utterly different — more repellent. And the ending pleased me — ^ffie hero didn’t vanquish the villain, nor did he escape his doom and save his fair lady. Yessir, Mr. Smith, you are pleasing me mightily of late. The verse, Hagar, by Edgar Daniel Kramer, wasn’t half bad. He completes in a few breathless lines a story that is deeply imbedded within us all — fear of dark forests — fear of lurking, nameless unknown horrors, fear of natural phenomena that assume the grotesqueness of fearsome legendary spawns of other worlds. Ah me — I am so happy! Conan is grand, recalling former tales of men and dragons-^egfried of the Nibelungenlied (now I s'pose someone wants CO know what that means!) — St. George and his dragon — countless others — every nation has such a hero. 1 dunno as ^ec where the Red Nails come in, but myl it’s exciting already; strange, possibly unexplored places. Goody — I’m just so-o-o happy, I could gurgle! Robert 1^ Howard gave the readers of WT one of Ae finest, most lovable brutes of a hero anyone could want. Conan is Ac embodiment of Ae kind of man everyone admires: strengA and nerve to please Ae men; physi^e — umndetbar! to please Ae ladies. Enough rawness to be yet a barbarian and still experience enough to be better educated than the majority of Aose he encounters. He has a mind strong enough

to Arow off Ae spells of wizards. He is a filter, adventurer, explorer and lover — a real he-man. Mr. Howard is indeed a dever man!... Loot of the Vampire certainly put a new angle on vampires. I was wellsatisfied wiA Ae whole story.... I note you stated my letter in Ae July issue was entertaining. 1 am compliment^ and trust that all my letters may be even more so. Auf wiederschreiben’*

The Unborn

John V. Baltadonis, of lAiladdj^ia, writes: "Well — I wasn’t disappoinied in Ae least bit; Loot of the Vampire certainly had a swell ending. That was a peach of a yarn. However, it didn’t quite take the cake, so to speak, RonaJ Kayser’s story, The Unborn, nosing it out. The Unborn certainly had a new idea. For Aat reason and because it was well written, I give it first place in Ae July issue. This story is certainly a great step from The Albino Deaths. Gaik Ashton SmiA’s yarn. Necromancy in Naat, took third place, with Hamilton’s and Moore’s tales fmlowing. Virgil Finlay’s art work is wiAout a douw superb. I often find myself wondering how he would be on Ae a>ver, De Lay’s illustration for Hamilton's yarn, When tfpe World Slept, is certainly a humdinger. I’ll dose wiA an appeal icse Aac plu^y, inimitable Frenchman, Jules de Grandin."

Keep It Weird

Arel Rusl, of Mount Vernon, Ifiiaois, writes: "Here goes Ae first letter Aat I have written to this department in ten yean of reading your most excellent magazioe. 1 Aink it’s about time one of your old fans got into Ae swing of Aings by telling what he Ainks of old 'WT in general and the July issue in particular. Vampires are my particular AA and 1 like Aort Aorts; so two of your fairly recent yams stick in my mind, namely, The Horror Undying and The Amulet of Hell. BoA were swell and I Atnk we shoold see more from Aose auAoss. ’The best tale in Ae July issue seemed to me to be The Kelpie. Tot sheer horror and origmality it has few peers. The Unborn and When the World Slept tie for second plac^ hot all Ae stories were up to standard, whaefa is tantamount to the ht^est praise.. «. Well, 1 suppose this is enou^ for the fine fetter. Ana are you surprized to note Ae ladc of

.WEIRD TALES


brick-bats? You see, Weird Tales suits me just fine. No complaints, jxm keep up the good work and, to repeat a paean as old as my acquaintance with WT, Keep Weird Tales weird

Again and Again

Charles Donnelly, of Johnson Gty, Tennessee, writes; 'Tve always enjoyed Weird Tales a lot and I think I hav^roved it by my consistent reading of if. Tne tale that Tve enjoyed best lately was Child of the Winds by that superb writer Edmond Hamilton. It fascinated me so that 1 read it again and again. Mr. Hamilton’s style of writing is one that keeps me fascinated until the end of the story. And diat is some praise, because there are so few writers that can do that. I think that this story calls for a sequel because I don’t believe Lora will be happy until she is back on the plateau with her friends.... I sincerely thank Word Tales for so many enjoyable hours. It takes one out of this humdrum world into a place of dreams. The only fault I ever found with it was when it just printed every other month. I hope that won’t happen again, because a month is coo long to wait for Weird Tales, and two months is eons.”

Tlien and Now

Joseph Allan Ryan, of Cambridge, Maryland, writes: ”Do WT readers ever stop to observe how far Weird Tales has traveled since its inception? Let's take an early issue of WT — the October 1925 one, for instance — and compare it with the latest one. First of all we have J. U. Giesy’s humorous p^do-sdentific tale, The Wicked Flea — a nighly illogical story of a fiea that grew to a gigantic size and went chasing big dogs all over the country; it relied on silly names and one solitary pun to give it humor (?). Then there was S^bury (jinn's The Horror on the Links, the first de Grandin story. Although tiiis tale showed Quinn’s superiority in the field of weird story writing, it was not so interesting as are his present de Grandin tales, for it gave a scientific explanation to each phenomenon, whereas today we find only indications of the occult in Quirm’s masterpieces. The Prophet’s Grandc^ldren, by E. Hoffmann Price, was, thou^ interesting, not weird, for it merely rwold a legend of the Moslems..., The Fading Ghost, by Willis Knapp Jones, started as mough it was going to M a real WT shoic-story clasCLASSIHED ADVERTISEMENTS

SMALL ADS WOR’TH WATCHING

Book*

EN/OV WUX ROGERS’ humorously InterestiBS view* points in — "Amerlcao DoUars." “Eiuopean KcnUlty." ••Cowpunchlii’.” $1 each. Three $2. Limited. >

Francis Sales, Box 173, Ashland, Oregon.

Bueinees Opportunities

FRANKLY — Would you give $1.00 for a ehance to make $45.00, and up, weekly? No canvassing. Particulars for stamp. Setaan Service, 13838 Mitchell. Detroit, Michigan.

NEWSPAPER CUPPINGS PAT. Write Goedall, 330 Bankers investment Bldg., San Francisco.

MAKE EARNlNn EXTRA CASH YOUR HOBBT. New ideaa. Literature lOc. TTiomtoo, Box 1184. Long Beach. Calif.

OTAOTXBCRlNESS'OF'TOrm^WNI Become a subacrlpUon representative for '‘WEIRD TALES." No capital required. Liberal commissions. Monthly bonus. Write for details. Circulation Manage, WEIRD TALE8 Magazine, 840 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago, BL

Chirography

RAVE YOUR HANDWRITINO ANALT^ED. ^knoxv

your talents, peculiarities, handicaps I Send page In Ink, addressed, stamped envelope. Pee— 30e. A. ktcNelll. Box 783, Wrenthom, Massachusetts.

Horoscope

SFEOIAL OFTOBt Horosc^ R^’ding, 3Be. State

date of BirUi. M. Cairarinl, 218 B. Tlsf ^ Oilcago, lU.

Keys

MASTER KEYS that open hundreds of lec^ Handy in onergencles. 60c brings set postpaid. J. JL Ks - nedy. R. No. 3, Stelby, N. C

Medical

TOOTH-ACRE— "GiMea Ace" will not faS yoa G*-t yours today. Postpaid 25c. The Golden l4d>., 4B1.T Lake SL. Chicago, lU.

MiscManeous

SCCCESSFVl, BRAINS. The guide to a ftdl pockettxiok. New ideas. Original plans. Mon^oaiung secrets and valuable Information. Write ItaUanal Supply, Box 1761, Station D, Clevdaod, Ohio.

POCKET GOODS— Adults write lor deaertattve circulars. Frank ShlUiog. 1017-8 Dueber, Ckbmo, OMo.’

Roaor Bladee-^-^harp emm g MEN— Sharpen your own safety razor Uadet with « Rex HcHie. Puts a keen, sharp edm on all blades. Hone 20c postp^d (no stainpa). Wnalom Bcm., 1683 Garland, Detroit, Mleb.

Snngtcriters

Receive Gigantic Hails, Hagaunes, Samplea Tour name In I.IXX) mailing ilsts. 10c. FaBhai^. Dept. 10-E, 100 Fwiyth St, New Yerh CRy.

A Ghostly Voice from the Ediec!

It was as if seme phaasom were mMtperiag tbraugb the ether h the langsmge ef anetber planet. Read

’THE MOON TEBHOR"

(In bodt fanD PRIOR— SOe



sic; but eoded up with a sui^iize ending which explained everything as a mistake which could never be incurred. Tom Freeman’s The Death Shower was only a cleverly constructed detective stocy, not weird; while A Mind in Shadow, by Tessida Swinges, was a simple diiid’s story, related in baby-talk, w'hidi could not have been even remotely connected with Weird Tales — it should have been rejeaed, instead, by Qiild Life Magazine. The Weird Story R^rinc, Wilhelm FbuifTs The Severed Hand, had a couch of weirdness to it, but was ruined by a weak ending; moreover, the title bore little relatioQ to the story. There were other stories by authors who were, no doubt, prominent and popular at the time, but most of whom have dropped into the background. The illustrations, both inside and on the cover, were all done, very crudely, by a sole illustrator, Andrew Brosnatch. Compare hts efforts with the present exquisite work of Virgil Finlay and Mrs. Brundage, with the detailed, clear-cur drawings of Harold De Lay, (he shadowy, mysterious greasependb'a^ of Hu^ Rankin. Notice, too, the wide variety of artists — the early WTs had but one. The July, 1936, issue was almost a direa contrast to the early issue of 1925 which I reviewed. Clark Ashton Smith’s scintillant gem — Robert E. Howard's tale of the barbarian, Conan — Edmond Hamilton's fasdnatiog weird-sdentific tale of the near future — Thorp McClusky’s different vampire thriller — August W. Derleth’s narrative of spirit return, proof of his never-failiag mastery — the handsome Manly Wade Wellman’s short tale of stark horror, nearly approaching the point readied by Kuttner’s The Graveyard Rats — the beautiful inside illustrations and the exceileac cover — the usual array of interesting letters in the Eyrie — all these rounded up aa issue which was as nearly perfect as an issue can be, and which was yec tyfucal of the standard maintained in the last hve years. And still some readers yearn for the 'good old days'!"

Another tie Grandin Tale Robert A. Madle, of Philadelphia, wrice*: ^'Necromancy in Naat was a good story, beautifully illustrated by Virgil Finlay. His fantastic drawings are in fitting with the magazine — they are weird. Witliout a shadow of a doubt Virgil Finlay is

your best interior artist. De Lay, your recent addition, is also good. Robert B. Howard’s latest Conan adventure takes first place. 1 have yet to be displeas«i ^ Howard, and I hope he never stops writing for Weird Tales, Second place goes to that unusual yarn, The Unborn. This story presents a decidedly weird plot excellently written. It is a great improvement over Ronal Kayser’s previous contributions. The ocher tales were very good, especially Lost Paradise by C L. Moore. Moore never fails to please me with those beautiful tales of Northwest Smith. Do you realize that there hasn’t been a Jules de Grandin story in die last six issues and next month’s forecast doesn't boast of one either? You had better rectify the situation and secure one soon." [Cheer up, Mr. Madle, for two new tales of Jules ae Grandin will appear soon, with cover designs by Margaret Brundage. — ^T hb Editor.}

Varied Comments Paul N. Nicholaioff, of Chicago, write: "I find real treat when I read Seabury Quinn and Carl Jacobi. 'The former’s A Rival from the Grave and the latter’s Face in the Wind were excellent. McClusky’s Loot of the Vampire is very entertaining. The House of the Evil Eye I did not like so well. Its conclusion was mechanically constructed. It went off at a fair start, something else finished the race. Ballad of the Wolf was an excellent poem by Henry Kuttner. I hope to see more of his poems in future issues."

Unique Among Magazines Herberte Jordan, of Wellingborou^ England, writes: "I have been a deeply appredacive reader of Weird Tales for many years, and would like to express my sincere admiration for the high literary quality of the stories published. Year in and out this quality is maintained, and the success of WEIRD Tales is undoubtedly due to this fact The brilliant writers regularly contributing to the magazine are past masters in (he art of inducing dbose delldous shudders which run up the spine and set the scalp tingling with suspense and horror. 1 would also mention the work of ffie artists illustrating Weird Tales. The Brundage covwi are beautifully done, and the recent work by Virgil Finlay is superb. 'The Eyrie is a good feature and should, as Louis C Smith stated

WErnO TALES


ia a recent issue, be used solely for constructive aiticistn, not silly haggling. Whatever adverse criticism is made against Weird Tales, it is indisputable chat it has reached, and is maintaining, a very high standard of weird literature. Weird Tales stands alone. It is indeed unique in every respect. From the first page to the last, one is transTOrted into a world of eery fantasy where whispering voices hint unutterable horrors."

More Stories by Lovecraft B. M. Reynolds, of North Adams, Massachusetts, writes: “Congratulations on the July Weird Tales, the best job you’ve turned out in many a moon. 'Ibat issue came close to perfection. All of the stories were fine, in fact, with one exception. Loot of the Vampire was by far the most poorly written, atrocious and terrible piece of work that 1 have ever had the displeasure of reading in your fine magazine. The plot was weak, the characters unconvincing and the sequence of events very ‘spotty’ in places. A child of twelve could scarce find entertainment in that one. The other tales, however, were all of such a fine quality that it is hard to pick the best ones. Lost Paradise, Necromancy in Naas and Red Nails are tales that transport the reader out of the 'everyday* and carry him over countless dream-worlas and realms of enchantment. Tales of this type are all too scarce these days. The Unborn was a strong and appealing little story, undoubtedly Kayser’s b^ to date. When the World Slept, by Hamilton, was thoughtprovoking and perhaps not too impostible in these days of saentific progress. And speaking of Hamilton, his (^ild of the Winds, in May, was one of die finest tales you have ever given us. The short-shorts were the best in months. The Kelpie by Wellman and The Snakeskin Cigar-Case being the best of these. The latter was, decidedly, an 'off tiie trail’ story, which might have taken first place had it b^n longer. At any rate, it was a damn good yarn and if Bodo Wlldberg has any more as good, send them along. Conan Doyle's reprint. The Ring of Thoth, was the best tale of ancient Egyptian mummies that I have ever had the pleasure of reading. By the way, Mr. Editor, when, if ever, are we going to have any more tales by Lovecraft? Apparently, Robert Bloch has b^ trying to pindi-hit for Lovecraft for you, but he is an easy our. I’m sure no one can ^ Lovecraft’s

mXT MONTH

Witch-House

By Sbabury Quinn

H ere is another tale about Jules de Grandin, the fascinating occultist, scientist and ghost-breaker, who has endeared himself to many thousands of readers. Courageous, vain, boastful, mercurial, yet thoroughly lovable, he is one of the most interesting characters of modem fiction.

I N THIS story the little Frenchman attacks a dangerous and baffling situation involving a beautiful American girl in desperate peril of her life and a menace to those whom she loves — attacks it heroically, with all ffie courage and resourcefulness at his command. This superb novelette, one of the most intriguing of all the stories about Jules de Grandin, wiU be published complete

in the Novemhet issue sf


on Side October 1st

Tc avoid missing jour topj, clip and mail this coupon today for SPECIAL SUBSCRIPTION OFFER, <You Save 26c}

WEIRS TA1JS8 840 N. Kichlgan Ave.

CSileoso. UL

Bnclooed And $3.00. for whlcb lend toe Um next five issues of WBIRO TALES, to begin wftb the November Issue. (Special offer void ooIbm remittance is accompanied by coupem.)

Name. Address

aty.

state.



shoes wkh most of us readers. We miss his Elder Gods, and how!" [Two fine new stories by H. P. Lovecraft, The Haunter of the Dark and The Thing on the Door-Step, are scheduled for early publication. — The Editor.}

Pointed Paragraphs

Donald A, Wollheim, of New York City, writes: “Am always pleased to see Rob^ Bloch’s stories. That young man has certainly qualified himself for a permanent place on your list of outstanding authors. He cartks on the Loveaaft tradition. And, by the way, where is the grand master HPL himself, these days?"

James P. Harrill, of Charlotte, Nortfi Carolina, writes: "I still enjoy reading your magazine as much as always and still want you to continue the nudes an the front of the magazine, although I am now a settled married man. Also I do not think that it hurts the prestige of your magazine to have an occasional ^teaive or science-fiaion story; in fact, I do not like the absolutely u/eird tales that have awesome sliminess oozing from the putrid bodies of something-or-other. Let’s not make the stories too nasty; although 1 have as good a stomach as any man's, I do not like to read stories like that.”

R. M. Tomlinson, of Ventura, California, writes: “In the June issue, I was much pleased with the drawing signed by H. S. DeLay. Don’t know when I have seen such real skill in this sort of magazine.”

Robert Blodi, of Milwaukee, writes: “Robert E. Howard’s death is quite a shock — and a severe blow to WT. Despite my standing opinion on Conan, the faa always remains that Howard was one of WT's finest contributors, and his King KuU series were among the most outstanding works you ever printed.”

Seabury Quinn writes from Brooklyn: “The field of fantastic fiaion has lost one of its outstanding and recognized masters in Rc^rt E. Howard- His Solomon Kane stories, his tales of KuU, and latterly his Conan sagas, all of them were superb in their own way. He was a quantity producer, but always managed to kero his stuff fresh and vigorous. ITbere are few who can do this.’’

Jack Snow, of Dayton, Ohio, writes: “I have just finished reading the July Weird Tales and have laid it aside with mingled feelings. The story I liked best was Manly Wade Wellman’s The Kelpie. It was an out and our weird tale, not an adventure or thriU story masking behind a weird jargon.”

Most Popular Story

Readers, what is your favorite story in this issue? Write a letter, or fill out the coupon on this page, and send it to the Eyrie, Weird Tales. Your favorite stories in the July issue, as shown by your votes and letters, were the first part of the late Robert E. Howard’s story. Red Nails, and Qark Ashton Smith’s fantasy, Necromancy in Naat,

aiY FAVORITE STORIES IN THE OCTOBER WEIRD TALES ARE:

Story Remarks

( 1 )

( 2 >

n).

( 1 )

( 2 )

I do not like the following stories:

Why?

It will help us to know what kind of stories 70U want in Wssm Tales if you will fill out diis coupon and mail it to The Eyrie, Weird Tales, 840 N. Michigan Avc., Qiicago, HI.

Reader’s name aad address:

W. T.— 8


F rom the black woods beside the trail rose a shriek of blood-curdling laughter. Slavering, mouthing sounds followed it, so strange and garbled that at first I did not recognize them as human words. Their unhuman intonations sent a chill down my spine.

"Dead men!” the inhuman voice chanted. "Dead men with torn throats! There will be dead men among the pines before dawn! Dead men! Fools, you are all dead!”

Ashley and I both fired in the direction of the voice, and in the crashing reverberations of our shots the ghastly chant was drowned. But the weird laugh rang out again, deeper in the woods, and then silence closed down like a black fog, in which I heard the semi-hysterical gasping of the girl. She had released Ashley and was clinging frantically to me. I could feel the quivering of her lithe body against mine. Probably she had merely followed her feminine instinct to seek refuge with the strongest; the light of the match had shown her that I was a bigger man than Ashley.

"Hurr)’, for God’s sake!” Ashley’s voice sounded strangled. "It can’t be far to the cabin. Hurry! You'll come with us, Mr. Garfield?”

"What was it?” the girl was panting. "Oh, w^hat was it?”

"A madman, I think,” I answered, tucking her trembling little hand under my left arm. But at the back of my head was whispering the grisly realization that no madman ever had a voice like that. It sounded — God! — it sounded like some bestial creature speaking with human words, but not with a human tongue!...

You will not want to miss this grim novelette of stark horror — of the terrible disfigurement inflicted upon Adam Grimm by the dark priests of Inner Mongolia, and the frightful vengeance that pursued his enemy to the United States and tracked him down in the Louisiana woods. It will be published complete in the November issue of Weird Tales:

Black Hound oi Death

By Robert E. Howard


By Seabury Quinn

A fascinating and gripping tale of the blight that fell upon a lovely and beautiful American girl — a tale of Jules de Grandin, ghost-breaker, occultist, and master of the supernatural.


[THE END]

============================================================
by Robert Bloch
============================================================

By Robert Bloch

The strange tale of a man who communed too closely with things from beyond space — a shuddery tale of stark horror.

MIDAS

By Bassett Morgan

A shuddery graveyard tale, through which blows an icy breath of horror, like a chill wind from the tomb.


By Paul Ernst

A vivid weird tale about a masquerade ball, and a grim figure clad in formal black, w'ho mingled with the dancers but did not dance.

THE CRA\^XING HORROR

By Thorp McClusky

A grim tale of the weird terror that wrought ghastly death and panic at Brubaker Farm — by the author of "Loot of the Vampire.”

MICE

By Robert Barbour Johnson Wh.at ghastly fate pursued the dweller in that vermin-infested old mansion in Louisiana? — the story of a weird doom.

November WEIRD TALES

Out October 1

While They Last!

At

Special

Close-out Price

i'!l4

l>r

50c

T he moon terror, by A. G.

Birch, is a stupendous weird*scientlfic novel of Chinese intrigue to gain control of the world.


In addition to die full-length novel, this book also contains three shorter stories by well-known authors of thrilling weirdscientific fiction:

ooze, by Anthony M. Rud, tells of a biologist who remove the growth limitations from an amceba, and the amazing caiastrofihe that ensued.

PENELOPE, by Vincent Starrect, is a _fasciiuting tale of the star Penelope, and "'th^^i/antastic thing that happened when the star Vas in perihelion.


DIMENSION, by FatT^s^^■orth Wright, is an uproarious skit on the four-dimehsionaF theories of the madiematicians. and inter planetary stories in general.


Make sure of getting your copy now before, the close-out supply is exhausted. Send youf^rdgr today for this book at the special bargain pw<? of only 50c.

Noth: This book for sale from the publishers only. It cannot be purchased in any book store.

rWEIRU TAIJ-;s. nook Dept. y 8t0.N. MlrhicHti Ave.. Chleaeo. 111.. I. s I Enclosed find 50c for cloth-boand ropy «>r TTfE I MOON TERROR as per your sperlal offer.

^ Name,

I

I Address.

I City. State

[THE END]
