============================================================
Weird Tales
Volume 42, Number 6
Date: September 1950
============================================================
============================================================
TABLE OF CONTENTS

  1. "chronological fashion" by Immediately upon
============================================================
============================================================
CHRONOLOGICAL FASHION
by Immediately upon
============================================================
to begin with, and we were thoroughly ashamed of ourselves for not putting a stop to it when it had been first proposed by Ed.

"For, of course,” Marie pointed out, "Greg was just carrying the thing through to a logical conclusion by persisting in pretending that Mabel Hess was there with him. It gave him a good opportunity to tell us off, and ram that joke right down our silly throats to the bitter end.”

I heartily agreed with her.

'Twice during that ensuing week I telephoned Greg’s apartment to tell him we were sorry about it all, but there wasn’t any answer. And then, one afternoon towards the end of the week, I ran into him as I was coming down the post office steps with a rejected manuscript in my hand.

For a minute I was afraid Greg was going to pass me without speaking — and I would scarcely have blamed him — but he looked at me, hesitated for a minute as if he were going to go on, then stopped.

"Hello, Al," he said uncertainly.

I was just as uncomfortable as he was. "Eve phoned you twice this week, but you were never in. Come on over and have a cup of coffee with me. There’s something I’d like to tell you.”

But as it happened, Greg did most of the talking once we were settled in a booth in the doughnut-anci-coffee shop across the street.

While I was still searching for words with which to apologize, he said, "I want to tell you how sorry I am, Al, that I lost my temper at the party last Saturday night.”

I squirmed with embarrassment. He was apologizing to me, after everything, which was certainly heaping on the coals of fire.

"Well, gee!” I said, "You were justified. We handed you a pretty raw deal."

He looked surprised. "CMi, I didn’t care



for myself. And anyway, I’m not blaming you, Al.”

And then he said it.

He said, “Mabel says it wasn’t youi fault.”

I stared at him, goggle-eyed. Why in hell should he persist in pretending to believe in the Mabel Hess myth? Or was he pretending? For the first time, the suspicion crossed my mind that Greg Leyden might be crazy.

He must have put the wrong interpretation on my astonishment, for he smiled. "Oh, yes. Mabel likes you, you know. She says you really have a very kind heart.”

"Does — does she?” I asked idiotically. But what answer could I make to such an outlandish statement?

"Oh, yes,” Greg assured me. “And of course I’ll always be grateful to you for bringing us together.”

I swallowed. The walls of the shop were spinning around me, like a carousel gone mad. "You — ^you mean you still see her?”

He looked away. I could see the slow red creeping up his face and neck above his white collar. He hesitated a minute, then seemed to come to some sort of a decision. He turned to look at me frankly.

"Listen, Al. I wasn’t going to tell you at first, for fear you’d misunderstand. But, after all, you’re a writer. Broadminded, tolerant. The gay Bohemian type.”

I choked on my coffee. Where do people get these ideas? I thanked God that Marie wasn’t there to hear him.

"The truth of the matter is — ” Greg went on, his blush growing even deeper, "Well, Mabel is living with me.”

He must have gone crazy! He might even become violent!

Again he misinterpreted my expression.

"No, no, no!” he said. “Nothing like that! Of course it’s strictly platonic!” He looked at me reproachfully. "You know Mabel. How could you possibly think anything else?”

I’d humor him. I’d get away as quickly as I could.

I asked, "How did it happen?”

His eyes grew soft. He certainly had changed in the week since I had seen him

last. For the 'first time, I found myself almost liking him.

He said proudly, "She asked me if she could. When we drove away from your party, and I offered to take her home, she said she had nowhere to go. Gee, Al! She was so fragile and wistful and kind of — oh, I don’t know, pitiful! I couldn’t say no. You see that, don’t you? I — I didn’t even want to say no. I’d fallen in love with her at sight.”

He dreamed there a minute before he went on, low. "Of course, I thought there’d be a lot of talk about it, and I really didn’t care, though I’ve always been pretty conventional, I guess. Even a stuffed-shirt, smug in my rectitude. But, you know, it’s a funny thing.

“There’s two old maids who live across the hall from me, and I thought their tongues would be wagging at both ends, once they saw Mabel and me entering and leaving my apartment together. But they have seen us, and they don’t seem to think anything of it! I thought they’d cut me dead, but tliey always say hello, and smile.”

He fidgeted with a fork, frowning. "Of course, it’s true they ignore Mabel completely. They look right through her. It’s almost as if they can’t see her.”

I wet my lips. "But — Mabel? Have you just accepted her? A homeless girl? Haven’t you even asked her any questions about herself?”

Greg smiled shyly. "In the beginning, I did. But she was always — evasive. She won’t tell me anything about herself. I kidded her about it. I called her my Lady of Mystery. But now I never ask any more. It seemed to make her so sad. I don’t even want to know — whatever there is to know. Everything is so beautiful, just as it is. I wouldn’t run the risk of spoiling it.”

Now, I’m not crazy. I know how all this sounds. But you should have been there! You should have heard him! He wasn’t insane, as I’d feared. I’d take a bet on it. He wasn’t even drunk. He, at least, believed sincerely in the existence of Mabel Hess.

I couldn’t take any more. I got up groggily. I mumbled something, and left

UNKNOWN LADY


him abruptly. I knew he was staring after me, surprised, even upset by my sudden leave-taking.

But, take it from me, he was certainly not so upset as I was!

I WANTED to go home and lie down in a darkened room with a wet rag on my forehead. I wanted to hide in a closet. I wanted to get blind-drunk. I wanted to do anything but think about Greg Leyden.

I don’t know what I wanted.

I certainly didn’t expect what I got, though.

For when I reached home, my nerves fluttering like a flag in the wind, Marie was sitting on the very edge of a chair in the living room, staring expectantly at the door, waiting for me to come through it. She still had her hat on, and an early edition of the evening paper was folded on her lap.

"Well,” she said grimly, when she saw me. "I hope you’re satisfied now! We’re moving out of here in the morning!”

I couldn’t cope with a wife in that mood, not after what I’d just been through.

I said wearily, "What’s eating you now?”

"Don’t take that tone with me!” she said. She threw the paper indignantly aaoss to me. "That’s what’s eating me! Read it!”

I regarded the printed page with a jaundiced eye, mumbled aloud, "STEEL MARKET DRIFTS LOWER—”

"No, no, no!” cried Marie impatiently. "Not that, idiot! The little paragraph buried way down at the bottom of the first column!”

I read aloud again, after I’d found what she meant. " "The will of Miss Mabel Hess, who committed suicide last September by inhaling gas in the kitchen of her home at 1122 Pleasant Parkway, has been admitted to probate.’ ”

I read it again.

" 'Mabel Hess, 1122 Pleasant Parkway,’ ” I said. I looked at Marie. "Say, that’s this house!”

Someone seemed to be trailing fingers dipped in ice-water up and down my spine.

I can’t tell Greg. He’d say I have a diseased imagination.

But I can’t help wondering who — or what — is sharing his apartment!

BY PAGE COOPER T ORD of the unseen,

Of ghosts that howl through musty corners of the mind And stir the hideous sightless fears that grope to find A strangling clutch on this poor terror-palsied hand.

Oh keep them blind.

Lord of the unspoken,

Of viper words that suck the poisoned wounds of red And festered old betrayals; e’er my lips have fed Their venom to a heart as yet unstabbed, unbled.

Oh strike them dead.

otts’ Triumph

BY AUGUST DERLETH

O ONE ci means in Winterton ever put up a house without having Philander Potts to "do” ft fo» them. Philander Potts: Interior Decorator was the acme of perfection; he was the b«t judge of color combinations, wallpaper patterns, wood finishes, and all those litHe gewgaws and gimcracks which send

Where there had been an air of mischievous interference, now there was a disturbing note of malignancy.

silly women into raptures; his was the last and decisive word on hangings, objets d'art, and all manner of decorations, from


Heading by Yincent Napoli

POTTS’ TRIUMPH


the simple and effective to the ornate and garish, so comforting to those happily addled people who imagine that the presence of anything specious and glittering is proof positive of their advance in the world — material, spiritual, and intellectual.

Philander Potts, in a word, was the possessor of impeccable taste, and no false modesty forbade his admission of that fact. His was a hard-won success. He had started on a shoestring, but, being blessed with unmitigated gall and no scruples whatsoever, he had forced most of his competitors out of business, one by one, until finally he was the only interior decorator who had any standing at all in the city. He became a ruthless dictator in his business and a merciless martinet at home; his assistants, his secretary, his stenographer, his wife, and his two children all danced to his whistle, and while he was happy, they were not, but their happiness was not his problem.

No one could take away his glory. A house done by Totts was a success; it had to be, not only because there was no one in Winterton with sufficient taste and imagination to do or conceive of better, but because there was no gainsaying the fact. People in Winterton and its community area spoke of a "Potts house” as informed persons in the wider world spoke of a house by Frank Lloyd Wright or a theatre set by Jones or a portrait by Sargent. People were frankly proud to have their houses "done” by Potts, and Potts was proudest of all; indeed, in his more fanciful moments he conceived of the entire city of Winterton eventually done and redone by Potts, he dreamed of the distant day when people might speak of a "Potts city” as they now spoke of a "Potts house.”

Ah, the vanity of men! Potts thought that he was being offered a beginning on his grandiose dream when the young, orphaned Laver sisters bought the longabandoned Chitterton house, once, in the unlamented seventies, the grand house of Winterton. The young ladies called on Philander Potts without delay, and he jreceived them, pomaded, perfumed, and elegant as always, despite his tendency to fat. The young ladies were eyecatching, one blonde and brown-eyed, the other brunette and blue-eyed.

"Dear ladies,” he purred, "you have come about your new house. Or perhaps I ought to say the old house which will be as new when I finish with it.”

"We shall certainly need your advice,” admitted Janna, tlie blonde, with commendable caution.

"You see, Mr. Potts,” interposed Edna, "we have a rather special problem. And to tell the truth, we don’t know whether you are prepared to handle it.”

Philander Potts drew himself as far up to his full height as liis paunch would permit and scowled magnificently. "I have yet to encounter the problem I cannot surmount,” he pontificated.

"It seems that we have a haunted room in the house,” Edna went on, a faint frown appearing on her high forehead.

"Indeed,” said Potts, raising his eyebrows sardonically.

"A drawing-room on the second floor resists any attempt to do anything for it,” Edna continued.

Potts sat down, clasped his hands on his desk, and leaned forward with interest. "Tell me about it,” he urged.

B etween them, the Laver sisters summarized their experiences with the drawing-room on the second floor. It was a large, handsomely-appointed room — handsome, that is, by the standards of 1870 — with a fine view over the city, for the house stood on a knoll overlooking most of Winterton. Since it adjoined a bedroom and. a bath, it was ideal for the use of one of the sisters or of house-guests. It had been the favorite room of the last surviving Chittertons — Miss Lavinia and Miss Hester, strange, introverted women, reclusive and completely withdrawn from any social life whatever. They had permitted no change in the room within their lifetime, and quite evidently they meant to permit no change now that they had passed over.

The Chittertons obvic^ly haiinted the



room. Each time a chair was moved so much as a foot, it was found back in its former position within a short time thereafter, though no human hand had moved it. One day the Laver sisters and their hired help had completely rearranged the old furniture, pending arrival of the new; they had finished this laborious task in one afternoon. Yet, by morning, accompanied in the night by a tremendous banging and clattering, all tlie furniture was back in place as the Chittertons had had it and quite patently still wanted it.

The Laver sisters wanted it understood that for their part they were not afraid of ghosts or any other manifestation <rf the supernatural, but they meant to have the haunted room redone. Would Potts do it?

'T shall make a masterpiece of it,” he assured them, ’‘Jennings and Martin will be out in the morning.”

"Price is no object,” said Edna, rising.

Philander Potts heartily endorsed and respected this attitude; it made him almost unctuous and doubled his natural veneer of solicitude; he showed the Laver sisters to the outer door in person.

P ROMPTLY in the morning Potts’ assistants showed up at the Ohitterton house, Thek arrival coincided with the coming of the new furniture ordered for the seoond-doof drawing-room. Thus it was fortuitous. They lost no time in removing all the Oiktecton furniture and carting it away, replacing it with the new pieces which the Lavers had bought in Qeveland.

After lunch. Philander Potts himself appeared on the scene. He found his assistants much harassed.

"What have you done?” he asked bluntly. "Just about nothing but move furniture,” said Jennings, the older man.

"You’ve had all morning,” growled Potts in his nastiest voice.

"We’ll need more mornings,” said Martin.

Potts looked critically around him. "Impossible” he exclaimed at last. "The arrangement is dated and inappropriate. It mi^t have been done sixty years ago — not now.”

"We didn’t make it,” diomsed his as sistants indignantly.

Each of them made an attempt to explain before Potts signalled Jennings to speak. ’Ilien Jennings set forth a detailed account of their activities of the morning — the moving of the furniture, the selection of a color for carpeting, the discussion with the sisters on wallpaper, since the horrible imported French paper, stained and aged as it was, must go, and finally the descent to lunch, during which hour the furniture had been mysteriously shifted around to its present pattern.

This was, incidentally, the same pattern which the old furniture had outlined; whoever it was that was carrying on this annoying hanky-panky was at least being consistent; the new pieces had simply been substituted for the old; if some non-human agency were indeed responsible for the disturbances in the second-floor drawing-room, that agency had adjusted itself to the loss of the old pieces. Doubtless it would adjust as readily to other changes, the Laver sisters notwithstanding.

"Very well, carry on,” said Potts. "Never mind about the furniture. Leave it where it is. Have they chosen carpeting?”

"Yes, sir. A fine claret broadloom."

"Wallpaper?”

"There seems to be some doubt.”

'T’ll take the sample book and talk to them.”

Potts found the Laver sisters and sat down between them with the book of wallpaper samples. Since they had selected a claret carpeting, they would want something on their walls in claret with rust, copper, bronze, sienna, perhaps burnt umber. He believed he had just the thing. With a studied gesture he opened the sample book at just the page and revealed a new pattern of varicolored figures on a pale sienna background, a pattern of city streets, with miniature human beings walking about in all directions. It was a colorf^d but not flamboyant wallpaper,

"Oh, delightful!” exclaimed Janna.

"It’s very new,” confided Potts with the air of conveying a priceless secret, "I may say, there is not an^cr like it in WinterPOTTS’ TRIUMPH


ton. And, of course, if you decide to use it, there will not be another.”

"Do you have it in stock?” asked Edna practically.

"In ample quantity, I assure you.”

"Good. I like it.”

"And I,” agreed Janna.

"Let me compliment you on your exquisite taste, dear ladies,” he murmured.

H e went back upstairs and instructed his assistants to paint the ceiling in pale yellow, pending the arrival of the wallpaper from the shop, and left the house eminently delighted at the sisters’ selection of some of the most expensive material he had to offer. Once at the shop he ordered out sufficient paper to far more than cover the walls of the haunted drawing-room.

He may have had some vague premonition at that point.

His men reported the ceiling done, and one wall papered when they returned at six o’clock. At eight, the sisters were on the telephone to inform Philander Potts that all the wallpaper his men had put up had come down.

"Dear ladies, wallpaper by Potts does not come down,” he replied, incredulous. "Well, tom down, then.”

"I see.” He was pinked, irritated. That anyone should dare to interfere with a Potts house was inconceivable. It was a challenge that could not be ignored. "I will personally attend to the room tomorrow,” he assured the sisters.

In the morning he arrived with his assistants. He was girded with righteous indignation and his customary ego, which was colossal. He surveyed the shambles in the drawing-room with wrath. Only the ceiling had not been touched. The tridc, he saw, was to accomplish the act; the fait accompli evidently resisted reprisal, except for the arrangement of the furniture. However regrettable in its conservatism, the arrangement would probably have to remain, for the furniture was movable.

’‘The first thing to do is to get down all the old wallpaper,” he decided.

Forthwith they began. Jennings and Martin watched him with ill-concealed interest. He could not fathom this at first, but very soon he understood. For as he worked on the wall, removing the old paper, he was conscious of an irritating kind of interference — as if drafts of air were rising out of nowhere to whip the paper up into his face, or spectral hands were seeking to prevent his work. That his assistants had experienced similar interference he did not doubt, but for his part, he intended to betray in no way that he was aware of it.

Nevertheless, it was extremely annoying and not a little upsetting. 'Ihere was no manifest draft in the room; the windows were closed, the door likewise. There was no clear source of any current of air. Nor did he in fact feel air — all his observations were of the fluttering of the torn paper, quite as if the paper ksdf were animated, moving of its own volition with a singularly purposeful plan, as if to discourage him in his efforts to remove it.

But he would not be discouraged. He attacked the wall grimly, firmly, refusing to be delayed or distracted by the curiously animated paper, which shook its mustiness about him where he worked, so that in but a little time he wore a thin coating of dust. But by noon the walls were cleared and ready for the new wallpaper, and he descended to have luncheon with the Laver sisters at their invitation.

"This time,” he said confidently, "the paper will stay — or my name isn’t Philander Potts.”

"But of course it is,” answered Janna.

"Will you have coffee or tea, Mr. Potts?” asked Edna, and immediately went on to ask a further question. "You must have known the Chitterton sisters. What sort of women were they?

"Typical old maids,” he replied.

"What is a typical old maid, Mr. Potts?” asked Janna naively.

He shrugged elaborately. “Well, cranky, obstinate, secluded. Tliey certainly lived secluded lives, as you know. You found that out. Didn’t like people. I suppose if you get to living by yourself long enough, you don’t want to bother with people. After all, dear ladies, people are a problem.” He said this as if it were a profound truth, though ill



he meant to say, really, was that people who gave him trouble were a problem; he wondered as he spoke whether ghosts were people. He thought not.

"Difficult to get along with?” asked Edna.

"Extremely. Of course, my father knew them better than I did. TTiey’ve been dead almost twenty years."

"Do you suppose ghosts age?” asked Janna naively.

"I never thought about it,” said Potts bluntly. "I don’t believe in ghosts.”

"I see. We don’t seem to have any alternative,” answered Edna simply.

Potts was slightly disconcerted, but not much. Privately he thought that the Laver sisters had a tendency to obtuseness, but, since they were the source of his current income, he forebore to say so. He made polite conversation with them during the balance of the meal and then returned to the second floor drawing-room to put on the new wallpaper.

Everything was as he had left it. He caught himself admitting that he had exccted changes. But even a ghost could ardly replace tlie old wallpaper, which had been taken out and burned just before Jenkins and Martin had gone to lufKh. He set to work immediately, not waiting for his assistants to return, estimating that the papering of the room could be accomplished by evening.

I N A very short time he was aware of something more in the room’s atmosphere. Where all morning there had been an air of almost mischievous interference, now there was a disturbing note of malignancy, an aura of it lay in the room almost tangible enough to touch. It pressed in at him from all sides, quickening his pulse and shooting him through with vague alarm which baffled and angered him.

Would Jennings and Martin notice it? He wondered.

They did. They returned at one and got promptly to work. In half an hour Jennings muttered under his breath.

"What was that?” asked Potts with asperity.

"I don’t like it, that’s what,” said Jennings.

"Like what?”

"This room. ’There’s something in it.”

"There certainly is,” agreed Potts. "The three of us.”

"Something more,” supplemented Martin unusual assurance.

“I see,” said Potts. "Well, men, I want you to stand it as long as you can. If you can hold out until four o’clock, you can go, and I’ll finish it myself.”

The atmosphere of danger thickened. A kind of sentient menace clouded the atmosphere. Yet, strangely, there was no interference. 'Hie paper went up on one wall, then another; the room was half done. By four o’clock, when Jennings and Martin somewhat apologetically withdrew, approximately half a wall remained to be done, and Potts assured his assistants that he could manage it very well and be off by six o’clock.

Thereafter he w'orked diligently alone.

He was oppressed by the thick aura of angry menace all around him. Once or twice he fancied that the room had darkened. As he worked, shrugging away his impressions, he had a disquieting conviction that someone was watching him, and several times he could have sworn that someone stood just out of range of his vision, seen from the corner of his eyes, but he knew this for the result of eye-strain. Nevertheless, the illusion persisted; almost unconsciously, he increased the tempo of his work.

But the room was definitely darkening, with a tangible darkness that drew in from the walls like a cloud. He was thankful that he was almost done, for the menace of the room was profoundly upsetting.

Two strips left to put on.

One.

He turned to take it up and faced into the cloud of darkness spiralling about like a cone. For a moment he stood in amazement, staring. Then he closed his eyes and shook his head. Opening his eyes, he had a moment to see two grim-faced old ladies stepping out of that unworldly cloud of darkness and bearing down upon him with vengeful purpose.

POTTS’ TRIUMPH


In a second they had hold of him.

He shouted hoarsely, once.

"Did you hear something, Edna?” asked Janna, turning from the phonograph.

"Nothing imusual, why?”

"I thought I heard a shout.”

"No, I think not. Play Quatro Vidros again, will you? Mr. Potts ought to be almost done.”

"Did you ask him to dinner?”

"Heavens, no! What a bore!”

In half an hour they went up to the drawing-room on the second floor. Potts .had gone, though his tools had been left to be picked up in the morning.

"What a lovely paper!” exclaimed Janna.

"And when the carpet and the furniture are placed, it will be one of our best. Really too good for guests,” observed Edna.

“But I suppose tonight it’ll all be ripped oflF again,” said Janna sadly.

"Well, I should hope not. Mr. Potts will have to do it all over. He’ll hate it, but he promised. We’ll hold him to it.”

Janna did not reply. She stood with her head cocked a little to one side, listening. After a few moments she asked, "Do you hear anything, Edna?”

"This house must be troubling you, dear,” said Edna complacently. “What shoidd I hear?”

"I thought — I just thought — a voice. But, of course, it couldn’t be.” She shook her head, as if to shake the sound away. "Oh, I do hope this paper won’t be tom off in the night!”

But the paper was not torn off. Indeed, the assistants from the establishment of Philander Potts: Interior Decorator, were able on the following day, to set the room fully to rights, with the new carpeting and furniture and hangings, and, since they elected wisely to retain the old arrangement of the furniture, there was no further disturbance.

T he disappearance of Philander Potts, however, was a nine-day wonder until it was ascertained that a comely young widow had left town at approximately the same time, and, with that particular charity that is so integral in the human race, it was assumed, however erroneously, that Potts had suddenly decided to live up too his Christian name and had gone off with the widow.

Potts’ wife and children were more relieved than otherwise. Messrs. Jennings and Martin managed the business very well without Philander Potts, and Potts’ family, as well as his employees, began to live a far pleasanter life with no diminution of income. If anything, there was a substantial increase.

Philander Potts would have appreciated it, had he been in a position to do so, for it was as a result of his refurbishing of the haunted drawing-room that new and additional splendor came to the name of Potts.

'The Laver sisters candidly called the room "Potts’ triumph.”

They were in the habit of showing visitors into the drawing-room with a kind of awe. "His secret has gone away with him,” they were accustomed to say. "He promised us a masterpiece, and this is one, certainly. A wallpaper with sound effects, no less. Now, stand right here, and if you listen closely, it sounds just as if someone very fax away were saying. Let me out! Let me outr

Fortunately, no one ever thought to question the incongruousness of that tiny figure clad in some kind of working clothes so out of place in that final strip of wallpaper affixed with such determined vengefulness by hands which were certainly not those of Philander Potts. People were used to saying of him that Philander Potts put himself heart and soul into his work. And body, with a little outside help.

• . • . in fhe next WEIRD TITLES . . • .

Third Shadow"-- RUSSELL WAKEFIELD

Its tens was sensitive to vague horrors as well as concrete objects.

©/re

panish

Camera

BY CARL JACOBI

Reading by Vincent Napoli

O ONE would suspect Miss Lydia Lancaster of being a dreamer. She was conservative to primness,

unemotional, and conventional. Yet for all that, it was a habit of hers to daydream constantly during those off moments when

•5^5 It

THE SPANISH CAMERA


she was quite sure of being unobserved.

Miss Lydia worked as private secretary in the firm of Childers, Dourley and Ganston, 21 Maiden Lane. Her residence was in Bloomsbury by Russell Square, near the British Museum. And her life, the full thirty-three years of it up to the present, had been quite devoid of interest.

At five o’clock on Tuesday, the 5th of October, a dreary rain-swept day. Miss Lydia put aw'ay her typewriter, dusted her desk, as usual, and prepared to leave the office. At that moment a messenger arrived and delivered to her a letter from a well-known solicitor. The letter was brief and to the point:

Dear Madam: I have to inform you that you have been named heir to certain monies and properties as stipulated in the will of the late George Faversham who died suddenly on Thursday last. Will you kindly call at this office at your earliest convenience.

Benjamin Howell.

Miss Lydia had to read that note twice before it dawned on her who George Faversham was. He was her uncle, but her uncle in name only. That is to say, she had never met or even corresponded with him. The last of her mother’s four brothers, he long had been regarded as the black sheep of the family. She knew he had never married and that he had spent the greater part of his life wandering about the back ports of the world. Two years in Nepal, through the Khybcr Pass, up the Mahakam River in Dutch Borneo into unexplored Apo Kayan, into the white Indian country of the Upper Orinoco, he had come and gone like a willo’-the-wisp. But why he should have bequeathed her anything or indeed remember that she even existed was more than she could conjecture.

Early next morning Miss Lydia called at the office of Benjamin Howell in Lincoln’s Inn Fields. Howell, a somewhat younger man than she had expected, w'aited until she had settled herself in the chair opposite his desk. Then he opened a filing folder before him.,

’’Miss Lancaster,” he said, "your uncle left you a small house in East Darwich, and the sum of fifty thousand pounds in cash or negotiable securities.”

The significance of those words sank in slowly. Even at the end of five minutes after she had drunk the glass of water the solicitor gave her, she felt slightly dazed.

"Fifty thousand pounds!” she' repeated. "Why, it’s incredible! I’m — I’m rich!”

Mr. Howell nodded quietly. "The sum should take care of your needs for some time,” he said dryly. "Now about the house in East Darwich. I should strongly advise disposing of it.”

“Why?” asked Miss Lydia. "Is it run down?”

"Oh, it’s in good enough repair. In fact, it’s quite attractive. But . . .”

"But what . . .?”

"Well, your uncle was a strange person. Miss Lancaster. He visited some rather ojffthe-trail places. There may be some things about the house, or rather, in it, that ...” His voice broke off significantly.

But Miss Lydia was adamant. Inasmuch as George Faversham had been good enough to leave her this money, the least she could do was accept the lesser part of his bequest. Besides, she was independent now, it would no longer be necessary for her to w’ork or live in London, and a country house was the very thing she needed.

"Very well,” sighed Mr. Howell, "I’ve done my part. Here are the keys: the brass one for the front door, the iron one for the back door and two small keys for some chests you’ll find in the house. According to the will, my instructions were that these chests were not to be touched or opened by anyone" but you.”

I T WAS characteristic of Miss Lydia that she completed arrangements for her new life by the following Friday. Saturday she took the train to East Darwich, arriving early in the afternoon. As Mr. Howell had explained, the house was small and furnished in typical bachelor style. It was situated very close to the ocean shore and was quite alone, yet it appeared to be neither damp nor particularly isolated. The



Tiew from the parlor window was breathtaking witli the craggy cliffs on one side and the foam-swept beach on the other.

Miss Lydia had all but forgotten the chests mentioned by Mr. Howell until she came upon them in the bedroom. Then curiosity seized her and she hastened to fit the keys into tlie locks.

The covers thrown back, she stared in disappointment. In Miss Lydia’s eyes they contained nothing of interest whatever. Photographic equipment: three cameras of different stjdes and manufacture, an enlarging device, a dev'eloping tank and a quantity of tlie necessary papers, films and chemicals.

She remembered her mother mentioning that photography had been George Faversham’s stock-rn-trade. During his earlier years he was employed by a large newspaper service. But more recently he had preferred to free lance, taking and- selling pictures of unusual events as he came upon them.

She closed the two chests, pushed them back in a corner and promptly forgot about them. In the days that followed. Miss Lydia attempted to live the life of a gentlewoman of ease. She employed several female servants as well as a gardener and she completely refurbished the house in a manner to her own taste. She called on the vicar. She took long walks through the countryside — ^but after years of activity and routine this state of affairs soon began to pall on her, and she cast about for some other means of capturing her interest.

It was thus that she tliought again of the two chests. Why not photography as a hobby? She had all the materials she needed, and the picturesque shore and the town of East Darwich should offer many opportunities for a camera fan.

From the chests she selected the thirtyfive millimeter camera, loaded it with film and strolled out along the beach.

Miss Lydia’s ideas about picture taking were decidedly elementary, but she was familiar enough with cameras to know that this one was rather unusual. It was of Spanish manufacture witli an F 3.5 Garcia colorcorrected lens and a shutter speed up to a thousandth of a second. Just below the lens « small rectangle of silver had been fastened, the center of which was hollow and the outer surface covered and protected by a shield of glass. In this aperture could be seen a tiny black stone roughly carved in the shape of a coiled serpent. In the sunlight this stone glittered from a hundred different facets. The view finder, too, was rather odd. At times when she peered through it. Miss Lydia could see her subject clearly and distinctly. Again, an inner fog seemed to cloud the glass and the scene appeared hazy and indistinct as though viewed through water.

She took eighteen pictures that first day: of the shore, the sea and the streets of East Darwich. Then she set about to do her developing and printing.

S urprisingly enough, au eighteen negatives turned out well. But it was not until she had enlarged and dried her prints and spread them out on a table that she was able to take stock of her day’s work. Then she leaned back with a glow of satisfaction.

The Spanish camera was a marvel. Sixteen of the pictures were sharp and clear with no undue highlights or shadows. There was the seashore with its smooth trackless stretch of sand and dashing spray. There was the distant fishing vessel outlined against the driven cloud. And there were the quaint crooked streets of East Darwich snapped in the clean . freshness of early morning. She turned to the two remaining pictures and examined them carefully. One was merely fogged from pointing the lens into the sun. But the other — A queer thrill passed through her as she stared down upon it.

It was a sea view, taken from the top of one of the lesser cliffs. Miss Lydia remembered that picture very well, for it had cost her a torn dress climbing up the spume-wet rocks. It should have showed only an empty expanse of Atlantic with several sea gulls perched on a black pinnacle in the foreground. But at that point in the picture where the sky met the water — roughly in a space the size of a postage stamp — ^there appeared to be the miniature figure of a man — a man sitting in a chair with what

THE SPANISH CAMERA


looked to be a painted plate-glass window behind him. The whole thing was small with vague edges, yet the man’s features — aquiline nose, brisdy mustache, deep inset eyes — ^were sharp and clear. It gave the impression that one had pointed the lens of the camera through a curtain of gauze and caught a fleeting glimpse of a mirage in the sky.

"Double exposure,” said Miss Lydia to herself; but even as the thought came, she realized that couldn’t be the answer. For she had taken no inside shots and the surroundings about the man’s figure were definitely those of an interior.

She examined the camera again. Next she got out a magnifying glass and studied the plate-glass window background behind the man. Minute printing was discernible across this window and under the glass she slowly made out the words:

CAFE CLENARO

Her excitement mounted. 'There was no Cafe Clenaro in East Darwich, Of that she was positive. There was, however, a restaurant by that name in Poland Street, Soho, in London.

Miss Lydia went thoughtfully to bed. A hundred questions surged through her mind. Why should a camera which she herself had loaded with fresh film take a double exposure picture of an interior scene in London, hundreds of miles away. There seeme4 no answer, and she passed into a restless sleep. Toward morning she began to dream — queer fantastic dreams. She saw herself perched on a high tower with an enormous camera strapped about her body, and every time she pressed the shutter release, a huge serpent emerged from the lens chamber to glide about her in an endless circle.

. Morning and she woke nervous and exhausted. A single thought was uppermost in her mind. She must go to London, to the Cafe Clenaro. She must wait for the man by the window, take his picture and compare that picture with the one on the table. For in her state of excit«nent, it somehow never occurred to her that tlie man might

not come to the cafe or that he might not exist at all.

It was only when she was settled back in her seat on the train with the sunlit woods and fields gliding by that the utter absurdity of her action struck her. At King’s Cross she took a cab out Euston, down Totenham Court Road and along Oxford to Poland Street and the Cafe Clenaro where she chose a table near the window and ordered lunch. Her camera in its case still hung by a strap from her shoulder, and her hands trembled slightly from a nervous expectancy.

Time passed, customers came and went, and Miss Lydia saw no sign of her man of the photograph. At length weariness stole over her; she paid her check and rose. Then suddenly she stiffened.

He was there, sitting in the chair by the window: a large, heavy-set man with a coffee-colored mustache and wearing singularly incongruous pince-nez spectacles. Sunlight streaming in the large window cast him in sharp relief. As in a dream Miss Lydia reached for her camera. She unbuckled the leather flap and raised the view finder to her eye. An instant of focus and she clicked the shutter. And then an astounding thing happened.

The man leaped upward with a hoarse cry and tore at his throat. His eyes bulged, his face purpled, the veins of his neck stood out lividly. A moment later it was all over. While Miss Lydia stood there transfixed, the man slumped to the floor, twitched a few times and lay still.

A crowd gathered like magic, and in the ensuing confusion Miss Lydia sidled quietly to the door and made her escape. Outside, she walked the streets for half an hour before her heart quieted and she regained some of her composure. But even then with the reality of afternoon traffic about her, she felt weak and dazed, like a person who had just been rescued from an onrushing train.

S HE hailed a cab and rode to the offices of Benjamin Howell. The solicitor ushered her into his office with some concern.

"In heaven’s name, what’s wrong?” he demanded. "You look as if you’d seen a ghost."



"I believe I have,” sighed Miss Lydia. “At least, I’ve seen a murder without apparent cause.”

"Murder!”

In halting sentences she told him all that had happened. When she had finished Mr. Howell sat there, scowling.

"I think you’re seeing too much in coincidence,” he said. "A heart attack or a hundred other things might have caused the man’s death, if he did die; however, let’s take a look at that camera.”

H e did look, long and carefully. Finally he returned it to its case and handed it

back.

"Unusual, but I see nothing wrong with it,” he said. "I can assure you it’s not a weapon of any kind. Now, may I suggest again that you sell or dispose of that house and all that’s in it.”

“But you said — ”

"Miss Lancaster,” said Mr. Howell, "you never knew your uncle. I did. Believe me when I say he was an extraordinary man. As you know, he spent the greater part of his life, photographing rare and unusual scenes. He — ah, have you ever heard of the Trinidad QueenT'

She shook her head. "I don’t believe so.” The solicitor leaned back, closing his eyes. "The Trinidad Queen was a blackbirder, an eighteenth century slave-trade vessel, plying between Africa’s west coast and the West Indies. In 1784 she left Martinique, ran into a storm, was blown off her course and foundered near the island of French Key in the Grenadines. Now her approximate position was thought to have been known for a long time and also known was the fact that her strong box contained nearly two hundred thousand gold guineas. There have been innumerable attempts to rescue that gold, but the position was in deep •water, exposed to the winds, and all such attempts failed.”

Howell paused to tilt back in his chair and make steeples of his hands.

“In his travels, your uncle, George Fa\'crshain, came on a map purporting to ^K>w that the Trinidad Queen had actually gone down some miles to the east off Rojo

Bank and was lodged on a comparatively shallow reef. He organized a party, hired a small motor cruiser and headed for the Grenadines. That was a year ago.”

Howell opened the desk humidor and took out a cigar. Halfway to lighting it, he changed his mind and returned it to the box.

"Primarily, of course, your uncle’s motive in the whole affair was photography. He saw in the underwater action, the movements of the divers about the old sunken vessel an opportunity to capture on film some dramatic scenes. He took three men with him: Garcia Perena, a Portuguese from Havana, Dane Kellogg, a non-practicing British physician, and Justis Hardesty, a nondescript American whom he found on the San Juan waterfront. It was agreed that your uncle should have all returns on the photography work while the treasure, if any were found, should be divided four ways — ”

"But what has all this to do with — T' Miss Lydia interrupted.

"With your camera? It may have nothing to do with it,” replied Howell, "and then again it may have everything. First of all, you should know that the Trinidad Queen sailed under a stigma that has continued down through these many years. It was said that on the West African coast her skipper went upriver to a nati've village and took from a crude altar a small particle of what was known as the Damballah serpent stone. All the black evil which surrounded its obeah worship there in the jungle was said to have followed the captain and his ship.”

H owell uncrossed his legs and shifted in his chair. "That’s about all,” he said, "except that your uncle eventually realized a part of his fortune from that expedition. He found the Trinidad Queen all right and he brought to the surface quite a large quantity of the gold. He also seems to have brought up that much discussed piece of the Damballah stone — ^that is my guess anyway as nature of that thing under Sie glass covering on your camera. But something happened on that expedition, something strange that drifted back to civilization only in the form of vague rumors.

THE SPANISH CAMERA


It was said your ancle very nearly lost his life on one of the underwater dives.”

Miss Lydia failed to see any connection between Mr. Howell’s story and the subject in hand, but she was too polite to say so. The solicllor urged her again to dispose of her newly acquired house, and a few minutes later, still nervous and unsatisfied, she took her departure.

Morning found her back in East Darwich, anxiously scanning the morning paper. Any doubt she might have had that the man of the restaurant was not dead was dispelled when she read the following;

DANE KELLOGG DIES UNDER MYSTERIOUS CIRCUMSTANCES IN SOHO CAFE.

Kellogg! That was the name Mr. Howell had given as one of the three men who had accompanied her uncle on his expedition!

For a week Miss Lydia lived a life of tension and anticipation. The papers continued with a few more desultory accounts of the strange death; then the story died out. More than once during that week she half decided to return to London and tell all she knew to the police. But a moment’s consideration changed her mind. After all, she had done nothing that would interest Scotland Yard.

As time passed, however, she found herself thinking less about the man and more about her future work in photography. While in London she had picked up a pamphlet announcing a new prize contest in camera craft, and with typical amateur enthusiasm ^e cast about for worthy subject material.

Her strange dreams during this period continued, and strangely enough it was one of these dreams that formed into an idea for a picture. She dreamed she was walking along the beach in the moonlight and all about her were middle-aged men pleading with her to take their pictures, but every time she focused her camera and clicked the shutter the surrounding moonlight gave way to blackest night. When the moonlight returned again, the subject was writhing on the ground, desperately fighting a huge serpent.

'The more Miss Lydia thought about this

dream, the more it seemed to her that a moonlight ^ot of the ocean shore might be an ideal entry for the photography contest.

She chose her setting with extreme care. A hundred yards down the Shore from her house, half buried in the sand, was the rotting skeleton of an old whale boat. In the background the wall of black cliffs formed a natural archway with the sand piled high in curious shap^ dunes about it.

Loading the camera with a high speed film. Miss Lydia took along a collapsible tripod and went out on the shore one night shortly after darkness had set in. The sky, lit by brilliant stars, was shot here and there with flying spindrifts of cloud, but the moon had not yet arisen. Waiting for it, she sat on an outcropping rock and felt a vague uneasiness steal over her. At length the moon peered whitely over the tops of the trees and the rolling surf changed on the instant to silver.

Miss Lydia mounted the Spanish camera firmly on the tripod, focused it so the whale boat would be in upper mid-center of the picture and opened the lens to its full F. 3.5. She clicked open the shutter and waited, watching the minute hand of her wrist watch.

She took several pictures. Back in her house, she set about developing and printing. As she worked, a queer feeling that she was being watched by unseen eyes seized her. Nervously she caught herself looking over her shoulder several times.

Only two of the negatives proved suitable for printing. One of these was fairly successful, but the effect was rather that of a dull daylight shot. It was the second picture which drew her up short.

Double exposure again! 'The sandy strip of beach was very clear with the mellow moonlight caught perfectly. But the old whale boat was not there! In its place were the head and shoulders of a man — a Latin looking man this time, with dark features and a receding hair line. He was leaning against the front of a building, and Miss Lydia recognized that building as she studio it with her magnifying glass. It was the Drury Lane 'Theater.



Miss Lydia did not sleep well that night. She awoke at fitful intervals, the last time at three-thirty a.m. by the radium-faced clock on her dresser. The house was quite still, save for the distant swish and boom of the surf. Yet this time she was positive some unusual sound had awakened her. She got up, put on a dressing gown and slippers and made her w'ay to the front door.

The moon had gone down, and the night was steeped in shadows, with only the glow of the stars. But as she stood there, the chill wind clutching at her gown. Miss Lydia suddenly stiffened. Ahead of her one of the shadows had detached itself from the others and w'as slowly advancing toward her. It was the figure of a man who seemed to glide rather than walk across the lawn. The lower part of his body was wreathed in mist, but to the woman in the doorway it seemed his face was clear and distinct, it was the face of a middle-aged man with mental strength and determination. Under one arm he carried a camera and in the other hand a book.

Coming to a halt in the open space before the door of the house, he suddenly poised the camera at some unseen object. Then he passed on to the far end of the veranda, took the book from under his arm and proceeded to wedge it between the ornamental porch rails. After which he turned and glided toward that point where the lawn merged into the sand of the beach. And there the mist seemed to gather about him in loose flowing coils until he had disappeared.

Was she dreaming? Miss Lydia rubbed her eyes and stared before her in sleepy bewilderment. She went back into her bedroom and returned with a powerful flashlight. But.'although she probed the white beam from the birches on one side to the azaelea bed on the other, she saw nothing.

Morning, and she was half way through her solitary breakfast before she suddenly remembered the book. That at least would prove whether her experience of the night was an actuality. Hurrying out onto the veranda, she stopped stunned. A book was tliere, still wedged between the porch rails, 0 tni damp from morning dew.

Miss Lydia stepped forward, took the book and glanced at its title. It was a well worn copy of Wesf Indian Journal, by Panson McBeal, published in London in 1897, and, after a quick glance Miss Lydia thought it queer that anyone would read such a book. It was out of date both in style and subject matter, containing only one yellowed map. But a glance at the map told her that this book was undoubtedly the source of her uncle George Faversharr’s information as to the actual location of the Trinidad Queen. The actual site of the ship on French Key was carefully marked, together with the depth soundings.

One thing about the map puzzled her. On the margin at the bottom, in tiny hurried script was written twenty-seven. Why should anyone in the apparent haste that this writer was take the time to write those words instead of the numerals 27? Miss Lydia turned to page 27, but there was nothing unusual alwut it. Then words spoken by Solicitor Howell came back to her: "Your uncle was a strange man. Miss Lancaster. He did things in unusual ways.” Was there a clue to his life, to the mystery of his camera in those two words written at the bottom of the map page?

rHE SPANISH CAMERA


She began looking on pages that were divisible by 27, without result. Then she looked simply at those pages in which 27 was a component part. She got no place here either.

A bruptly she paused and began to count the letters in those two words. Counting the hyphen, they totaled twelve. She wrote down the numeral, 12, and looked at it abstractedly with the long habit of one who appreciates numbers for what they are. During the summer of ’43, Miss Lydia had worked in the cryptograph department of British Intelligence, and now, without thinking, she applied her training here. She added the two digits of 12, making three; she added a 4 for the division of 12 by 3 and then swiftly multiplied the 34 by 12 and to this 108 she subtracted the total of 34 plus 12 or 46, leaving 62. All the while she was quite aware that her actions would seem meaningless to the casual observer.

Turning to the book again, she looked on page 62, sixth line down, second word in. The word she found there — "they” — didn’t mean much. But when she had followed it with words in the identical position on every subsequent page with a six or a two in it, she stared astounded at her written result.

As Solicitor Benjamin Howell had told her, three men had accompanied her uncle on his trip to the Trinidad Queen, the foundered slave-trade vessel: Dane Kellogg, Justis Hardesty and Garcia Perena. The message which she had extracted from the West Indies travel book was a black condemnation of those three men. Briefly it told of George Faversham’s overhearing the three plot to murder him. Murder for his share of the salvaged gold!

Miss Lydia closed the book thoughtfully. Why had George Faversham taken such pains to hide his message in the pages of that book? Simply because he was queer and eccentric? That might be one reason. But undoubtedly it was because at the time of the writing he was afraid one of the three — Hardesty, Kellogg, or Garcia Perena — would discover that he knew the truth. But

if such an attempt against his life were plotted, why had her uncle not made any attempt to prosecute tlie three after his return to civilization? Howell had told her the answer. The men, fearing retaliation, had disappeared.

For two days Miss LycHa sought to forget these facts and lose herself in the routine duties of her house. The moonlight photograph with its fantastic inset of the man standing before Drury Theater entrance haunted her. On the third day slie could stand it no longer. Salving her conscience with a list of things she needed in London, she caught the morning train. She took her camera along.

That night found her stumbling back into her liouse, dazed and haggard. Her eyes were bloodshot. She went directly to her bedroom and lay down in the darkness while a thousand mad thoughts swirled through her brain.

The camera had repeated itself. In London she had gone directly to Drury Lane Theater at Drury Lane and Catherine Street, and focused her gaze on that section of the theater entrance which had found itself In her photograph. Within half an hour it had happened.

A man with Latin features and impeccably dressed had paused in her ellipse of stage to light a cigarette. An instant Miss Lydia stared at him. Then her arm shot sideward of its own accord, opened the leather case of her camera and jerked the instrument to eye focus. "No!” slie told herself. "I must not! I must not!” But a w'ill other than her own ruled her every move. Through the view finder she saw the man standing there. She clicked the shutter.

In her room now. Miss Lydia tried to expel the scene from her thoughts. 'The man had died there, died horribly, But drawn by the same inner hypnosis she had lingered while the crowd gathered and a phlegmatic bobby made his identification. The man was Garcia Perena, a citizen of Havana!

Out of her confused mind, as she lay there in the darkness, a single thought rose to repeat itself over and over again. The camera with its accursed Damballah .itone must



be destroyed, must be sent back to the depths from which it came.

Miss Lydia got out of bed, took up the camera and went out of the house. She went down the gravel path past the bed of azaleas and onto the moonlit beach. The booming surf seemed to resound in tune with her steps and the night wind caught her hair and skirts and whipped tliem out behind. She was heading for the Needle, a small promontory that stabbed out into deep water. There she could throw her camera away forever without any fear that it would be washed up on the beach. '

The moon was brilliant and she seemed able to see for miles in the cold light. Half way to the Needle she suddenly halted. A man was approaching her from far down the beach. As yet he had not seen her, for she was moving in the shadow of the flanking cliff. For some reason stealth appeared to be in his movements, and Miss Lydia darted behind a boulder to let him pass. The man passed her and went on, walking with a slight limp in his right foot. She waited a moment, then began to follow.

He passed through her garden to the rear wall of her house and began to fumble with the fastenings of the window there. The window slid open, and the man gripped the sill preparatory to lifting himself through the opening. And as she stood there watching in the shadows, a feeling of something evil swept over Miss Lydia. Her camera was trembling like a thing alive in its case hanging from her shoulder. Abruptly it seemed to lift of its own accord into her hands. A cry of horror rose to her lips at the realization of what was happening.

With a jerk the man spun around, staring.

And calmly, and matter of factly, moved by another will. Miss Lydia lifted her camera to focus and clicked the shutter. A span of mist appeared to radiate outward from the lens. That mist seemed to open like a white envelope, from the depths of which the coils of a yellow green serpent emerged.

The serpent slid slowly forward, and the man at the window stared in fascinated horror. He threw himself sideways, attempted to leap over a collection of flower pots. He tripped and fell. And while his screams rent the night air, the serpent slid slowly over him and began to gather its coils about his throat.

M r. benjamin HOWELL visited Miss Lydia the day after the inquest. He found his client in surprisingly good spirits, a little nervous from the ordeal of answering police questions but seemingly relieved that the jury had found a verdict of "death at the hands of person or persons unknown.”

"But who was he?” Mr. Howell asked. "Your letter said something about a thief trying to break into your — ”

"He was just that,” replied Miss Lydia calmly. "But in addition his name was Justis Hardesty who you will remember was the third and last of the men who accompanied my uncle on the Trinidad Queen."

"But I don’t understand,” began Mr. Howell.

"The three of them — ^Hardesty, Kellogg and Garcia Perena — were fiends, coldblooded fiends,” continued Miss Lydia. "They deliberately plotted to murder my uncle, to sever his life-line and air hose while he was under water on the deck of the sunken vessel. Now all three of them are dead, and my uncle can rest in peace.”

Howell half smiled. "Oh oome. Miss Lancaster, you can’t really believe George Faversham had anything to do with the death of those three men. It was pure coincidence that two of them died when they did. As for Hardesty, he simply read in the paper of your inheriting your uncle’s fortune and saw in your house a good place to rob. As for that camera — by the way what did you do with the camera. Miss Lancaster?”

"It’s gone,” she said.

"Gone?”

Miss Lydia nodded cryptically and left the matter at that.

^/hree Pools and the Painted Moon

BY FRANK OWEN

Heading by Boris Dolgov ^ ■ ^HE porcelains of Tang Ling were

_ I famous throughout all China. It hay

His four souls had been willing to set been written that he was a porcf

out on their preordaintd destinations. hiin magician, and with good reason. Even




the Emperor had honored him and called him Elder Brother. Usually artists executed one phase only in the making of porcelain. One shaped a vase, another fired it. Some were specialists in glazes, others painted butterflies. The painter of moons was not nearly as famous as the painters of clouds or mountains. But Tang Ling did all these things with equal facility.

At times Tang Ling took weeks to perfect a single vase and during that time he conversed with no one, except for an occasional word with the old servant who brought him his rice. Though his possessions were considerable, while absorbed in creating he lived as frugally as a peasant. Tea was his one luxury, rare tea that had been grown high on a mountain where the Green Lady occasionally touched the growing leaves ever so gently with her long cold fingers.

Tang Ling assigned names to the vases he created. The title of the case that held an enduring place in his heart was "The Three Pools and the Painted Moon.” He kept it on a teakwood table near the open window in his sleeping room. The vase was of sunflower yellow with the glow of the sun upon it even when there was no sun. Beside one of the clear cool pools of water stood a man and a girl. The man was richly attired in garments of green silk, emroidered with the Imperial Gold Dragon. The girl was like a lovely flower swaying in the breeze. Her fingers and lips were colored with the juice of balsam flowers. Her cheeks had been brushed with rice powder. Her hair, simply arranged, was black with tints of blue as the sun shone upon it. Her eyes were like unto black opals, with all their abundant mystery. But it was her smile that caught and held the attention, gentle, all-knowing and wonderfully sweet.

For hours each day, Tang Ling gazed on her enraptured; and when he slept, she invaded his dreams. For him she possessed a warmth of affection. How he longed to take her into his arms. No thought had he that she was but the figment of his own imagination, a fragile, exquisite porcelain lady. So enraptured was he, he seldom left the room that was glorified by the sparkle

of her eyes, the slender grace of her body. He longed to be ever at her side, to be her devoted companion for days without end. And as he sipped the tea which his servant set down before him, he gazed into her eyes, and she gazed back at him. Her expression was enigmatic. Was it only his imagination or did she desire him also? Then suddenly a solution came to him, a solution so simple he marveled that he had not thought of it before. He would paint himself into the vase, standing beside her. And happiness would indeed be theirs.

He spent days mixing and grinding new colors for this supreme effort of his career. Using antimony as a base he manufactured common black, mirror black and also a wide variety of shades of purest yellow like unto the yolk of an egg, eel skin yellow, strawcolor, canary, citron or lemon yellow, mustard, orange and sulphur. Then he mixed luxurious greens — snakeskin, cucumber, emerald, celadon or sea green. His blues were famed wherever artists congregated — powder-blue, sapphire, turquoise, peacock, kingfisher and blue like the sky at morning after rain. From copper he evolved crimson, peachbloom, crushed strawberries. From iron, vermilion, coral, toipato. From gold, rose, pink and ruby. He slashed his finger with a small knife and mixed his blood with the cupric oxide that is copper red.

The actual painting of himself into the beloved vase began on a morning at sunrise when the dew was heavy on the cool grass and the last vestige of moonlight still lingered in the tall bamboo. The perfume of flowers was attuned to the songs of gay plumaged birds, drunk with joy as they sang salutations to the dawn.

Tang Ling had bathed and dressed with extreme care as though this were the day of his wedding. He Jtjad purchased an Imperial Coronation robe that had once adorned a Ming Emperor. In the center was the Yang apd the Yin, the male and the female principles, representing divine origin, embroidered in gold couche stitch on a plum-colored satin background. All the constellations from one to nine, representing the great social bows and mutual

The three pools and the painted moon


duties were grouped around the Tcu-cht. On the right shoulder was the imperial dragon enveloping the sacred disc; the moon, symbolizing the Yin. On the left shoulder was the Imperial dragon enveloping the sacred disc; the sun, symbolizing the Yang, the five lotus-purity; the eight phoenixes, the six shou characters — denoting long life. Wearing such a robe Tang Ling was indeed Emperor of Porcelain, the Son of Heaven. In such raiment would he paint his own portrait on the vase.

A nd so he set to work. If he could achieve his desire, the slender graceful girl would be his. That tht object he had set for himself could only be accomplished by alchemy and a large measure of magic was of little purport. Had not the great Wu Tao-tzu in the golden age of Tang painted with such skill that scores of legends have grown up about him. His dragons were enveloped in mist. It has been written that he painted horses with such realism that they ran away and .were never seen again. His flowers were so lifelike their essence sweetened the room in which the pictures of them were hung. He painted on silk, on bamboo slips and on the walls of the Imperial Palace of the Emperor Ming Huang. The paintings of Wu Tao-tzu were three dimensional.

Tang Ling, on porcelain, had solved this three dimensional quality of Wu. His figures lived and breathed and appeared about to speak. No doubt had he that the slim, flowerlike girl he had painted with his own magic brush was a living pulsating being. Her exquisite tender smile was for him only. Her eyes followed him about the room.

He could hardly wait for that glorious moment when he could join her on the vase. As he painted himsef into the vase fingers fairly flew with inspiration. Glad was he that he had a strong wrist. Not for a moment did he pause to rest, nor did he partake of food or drink. He finished his own portrait by moonlight. Then he carried the precious vase down to the baking ovens at the foot of the garden. Gently he consigned the beloved vase to a second

firing so that his figure might be imprisoned there forever.

That night was the strangest of his amazing career. Never had he endured -such intense suffering and terror. His room was like a bake-oven, his bed the grate of a furnace. Perspiration fell from his body in scalding beads. Was it only his imagination or did it rise above him like live steam? While still alive he was being cremated. No Parsee placed on a burial tower while still living and being slowly devoured by ravenous vultures was subjected to more pain. He clutched at the silk coverlets of the kong and bit his teeth until the blood flow'ed. He endeavored with all his will power not to cry out but occasionally an anguished sob escaped him. Perhaps she was enduring torment equal to his! The thought stabbed him with such acute pain it even eclipsed, if that were possible, the fury of the intense oven-heat, for oven-heat it was. His bed had become as hot as the ovens at the foot of the garden. But all this intense suffering had to be. And somehow he survived it even as his countrymen for ages have endured every disaster — flood, starvation, pestilence and invasion, and through it all remained courteous, philosophic, serene as though they knew that inevitably all would be well once more.

A S THE first gaunt fingers of dawn reached through the open window of his sleeping room, Tang Ling rose wearily to his feet. Within a few hours he had become a dried up old man. He felt as if his flesh had been burned away and only bleached bones remained. Moaning slightly, he crept through the garden. He longed to hurry so that he might be free of this dreadful ordeal but speed was impossible. Though he fell twice, somehow he reached the b^ing-oven. With great effort he drew the beloved vase from it and placed it gently on the ground. Tlien he collapsed on the green earth and lay scarcely conscious while his body gradually cooled and some measure of relief came to him. How cool the dew felt on his fiery flesh.

Gradually the intense heat of his body lessened, and at last he slept. Every fibre



of his body knew complete exhaustion. He had stood at the threshold of the dwelling place of his ancestors, but it would have been precious relief had he stepped through and joined them. His four souls had been quite willing to set out on their’ preordained destinations. But now gentle sleep had come to him at last, sleep without dreams. Nearby in the small artificial lake, a white-plumed heron stood watching. It was late evening when he awakened. A thin sickle of moon lifted slantwise into the sky. A cool breeze stirred the treetops as it swept through the garden. The air was sweet with the breath of many flowers.

Tang Ling rose to his feet. His body felt light, empty with little more texture than a ghost. He was surprised tliat he could keep his feet on the ground. The breeze, cool and sweet, had intensified. He lifted his treasured vase in his arms. This was creation indeed for even by m.oonlight he could see that the girl was smiling and in her eyes, all-seeing, there was warm love and tenderness. He could discern her breathing, the rise and fall of her soft breast. And he knew that every beat of her heart was for him. Here was love beyond the reach of poets. Witli hushed footsteps, he walked back to his sleeping room. The feeling of fatigue remained with him. Merely to walk was a great effort as though old age enshrouded him. He clutched the vase to him for it was the most precious thing he possessed. Though that was wrong, too, for it seemed as if the vase possessed him more truly than he possessed the vase. It was a glowing creation of yellow madness.

B ack in his sleeping room, he placed the vase on a table near the open window where the sunlight could fall upon it. This was like painting a living rose, for it needed no sunlight, it glowed with an enchanting radiance of its own, a radiance that echoed the smile of his beloved. Now slender and fragile she looked, this little orcelain lady who from the tip of his rush out of a riot of color, had come to dwell in his heart. He was so intensely happy it was like physical pain. Still the feeling of languor remained. He lay back on

the silken pillow of the kong. It was odd to gaze upon his own figure burnished on the vase, seeming far more alive than his living body. Perhaps this was his life’s end. If so, what matter? His portrait on the vase would be immortal, nor would age wither the roundness and youth of his face. Gradually sleep assuaged his weariness, sleep deep and merciful.

Hours later, he awakened into a world of golden yellow splendor. He felt abundantly refreshed. Yet he had come imto a rich new world. Was he now an immortal? Was this the spiritual realms of his ancestors? If so, it was a beautiful awakening. He felt his thighs, his arms; his body was solid enough. Slowly he rose to his feet and gazed in awe about him. Nearby he noticed, as his eyes became attuned to the glowing yellow atmosphere, three pools of cool, clear water while above glowed a painted moon. Then he knew, for beside him stood the fragile girl. He dared not move, lest by doing so he might break the magic thread. And yet, in spite of himself, his arms encircled her and time stood still. Perhaps it had ceased to be when he painted his own figure on the case. Now he dwelt in a yellow porcelain land, without age, where it was forever spring. But, though he did not realize it at that moment, there was grave danger also, a personal danger of his own contriving.

A S HE held the girl to him, whose delicate beauty eclipsed the rarest cameo, he felt as though he were master of the imiverse. The stars were his and the moon also. He could hold morning in his hands. Alas, however, the extreme joy that engulfed him was but momentary, like a fragment of a poem by LI Po. The next instant he was fighting for his life, fighting a foe that existed only through his inspired brush strokes. But real or imagined his opponent fought with demoniac fury. It was all that Tang Ling could do to protect himself, nor had he any thought of being the aggressor. Even as he struggled, he regretted that he had painted this evil attacker with such an abundance of virility. His strength was amazing. Tang Ling was

THE THREE POOLS AND THE PAINTED MOON


losing the unequal battle. Fingers like talons were upon his throat, and he felt himself falling. Tighter the steel fingers closed on his throat as he was dragged into one of the three pools. Dimly through the water he could see the painted moon. So this was the end. Consciousness was slipping from him as there came an earth shattering crash!

When at last he opened his eyes, it was morning. The fragrance of tlie room was ethereal. The sunlight was liquid gold. He glanced toward the table on which stood the beloved vase. It was there no longer, but lay shattered on the floor. He bent

down and examined the pieces. With enormous relish he discovered that his enemy’s head had been severed from his body. A delectable manner in which to find him. But that was only a dream, a vivid dream, but a dream nonetheless. It was only then that he was aware that his head and shoulders were dripping wet. In astonishment he rose to his feet. And then she came to him through the curtained doorway, as slim and delicate as a flower. She nestled into his arms as though they had been made for that very purpose. It was a moment such as even gods might envy. Then together they walked out into an enchanted garden.

• Write to MARTIN WARE, SECRETARY •

• This is your club— -a medium to help you and other fantasy and science-fiction fans get together. Readers wanted it — they wrote in tiling us how much they would enjoy meeting others of simitar tastes.

• Membership is very simple: just drop os a line, so that we can enroll you on the club roster, and publish your name and address in the magazine.

• A membership card carrying the above design — personal token of your fellowship with the weird and the fantastic — will be sent on request. (A stamped, addressed envelope should be enclosed.)

imiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii

NEW MEMBERS

Benjamin Guterman, 97 Ft, Washingrton Ave,, Ne’w York 32, N, Y.

Wayburn Sagrer, Box 488, Sidney, Ohio

Terry Pooie, 1451 Dougl^ St,, Mobile 19, Ala.

Ray Nelka 1622>A De Soto, St. Louia 7, Mo.

Frank B. Jarvic, 116 Deiman St., San Francisco, Ci^f. Daniel Doetterl, 101 Kebe St„ BofiEalo 11, K, Y.

Peter Kokalis, 6000 N. Kilbnrn, Chioagio 80, IlL J^n A. White, 334 Central St„ Mansfi^d, Mass, Robert J. Cheatham, Jr., 118 Thomas St., Elberton, Ga. Miss Diana Kosteai, 8327 Gregory St,« Saa Diego 4 , CalU.

ISToble Mullioan, Jr., 1831 Academy St., Winston-Salem, No. Car,

Gilbert Tatman, 805 Porter, Wichita 3, Kans. Fcrdinando Martino, Sr., P. O. Box 267, Sparks, Nev, David Hammond, 806 Oak St., Runnenicde, N. .T. Tony Cerone, 420 White Horse Pike, Audnl^n, N, J. Tony Vestal Brown, 274 W. Main St., Ventura, Calif. Gilbert B. Stuart, 2401 No. 45th, Seattle, Wash.

R. D. De Guire 180 York, Ottawa, Ont., Canada Miss Helen Crichton, Denside Croft, Durris ^ Dinjmoak, Aberdeenshire, Scotland

Miss Joan Carmichael, Burnett A Hotel, Banchory, Kincadine-Shire, Scotland Russell £. Jabs, 206 East I, St., Benicia, Calif. Charles J. Holdcman, 156 Buttonwood St., Reading, Penna.

Richard Stillwater, 428 Campbell St., Winnipeg, Man., Canada

Dominic A. Maio, 6-E Division, Naval Air Station, Coco Solo, Canal Zone

Edward F. Dix, Box 253, Cando, No. Dak.

Joseph Gaherty, Box 639, Dodsworth Lane, Coldspringg, Ky.

Mi*s. Henriette Volk, 807 Lakeside PI., Chicago, III. Mrs. Patricia Fairey, 217 “D" St., Marysville, Calif. Samuel M. Lucas, 4911 Pontiac I.Ake Rd., Pontiac, Mich. Lionel A. Goetz, 2215^ W. Washington Blvd., Loi Angeles 7, Calif.

Harold M. Gekicr, 4512 Clifton Ave., Chicago 40, III. Pfc. Rusty Scanio, 636788, Mar. Bks., U. S. Naval Activties, Nav. Gun. Fac., Wash. 25, D. C.

J. Bowman, 26 Westray St., Carlin How nr. Saltbum Yorkshire, England

Joseph Farrugia Ross, 24 Psaila St., Birkirkara, Malta Miss Mildred Mann, 328 W. 86th St., New York 24. N. Y.

Lt. James Van Buren, USNR, Base P.O., Chenute AFB, Ratxtoui, III.

Vito E. Mockeviciws, 462 Hampshire St., Lawrence,

Bert Hornback, 1266 State St., Bowling Green, Ky. Ward Truelsen, 8015 Tampa Ave., Cleveland 9, Ohio William Salter, 17 Garner Ave., Welland, Ont., Canada Jack Perrow, 86 Province St., So., Hamilton, Ont., Canada

George Nims Raybin, 509 Fifth Ave;, New York 17, N. Y.

Geo. A. Kaetzel, 406 Louisiana St., Buffalo 4, N. Y". Frank D. Johnston, 408 Stockton St., San Francisco, Calif.

Miss Helena Schwimmer, 1370 College Ave^ Bronx 56. N. Y.

John Turner, Box 89, Hopedalc, Ohio

Miss Loit Smith, 2320 E. Federal St., Baltimore 13, Md.

Ken Dulo, 213 Waugh St., Columbia, Mo.

Gene Jahnke, 5241 Hazel Ave., Phila., Penna.

H. T. Nading, Hotel Homestea!^ Athens, Ohio Robert Rosenblum. 184 Laurel St., Manchester, N. H, Thoris Jarrett, 105 High St., Salem, Oreg.

J. Thompson, 793 Devine St., Sarnia, Ont., Canada Peter Sitting, Jr., Gen. Del., Custer, Mont.

Carlysle Gentry, Barrett's Ferry, Ky.

Victor E. Saunier, Box 654, West Brookfield, Mast. Syl Chody, Jr., 8615 Belden Ave«, River Grove, III,

L

nsistent Ghost

i^u ^^mi{ Peta^

IfCl

A ghostly figure rippled like so many phosphorescent sea worms' on a glassy night ocean ....


Heading by Vincent Napoli

S eagulls, their bellies filled with herring spawn, halted their greedy peregrinations long enough to perch on Tessa Alder’s faded sign, and not infrequently to add a brief comment to Tessa’s corny but commercially sound device for luring tourists and townspeople into her little gift and book shop. Her beloved landlord would do nothing at all to relieve the peeled, dilapidated condition of the doubleflat’s facade (or indeed any other part of the house) so Tessa, with her usual delicate counterbalance of shrewd realism and affection for whimsy, painted the legend "YE OLDE GHOSTE SHOPPE” on an old piece of driftwood, and set it to swinging on the low brick wall in front of her window. Occasionally, when some young couple breathlessly asked her who haunted the shop and why, she would blandly improvise something appropriate.

Today, the sky having produced rain several times already, remained bleak and gusty and portentous. Inside the shop Tessa was giving her friend Verbena Smith tea.

"Artists sometimes take poison. Don’t they. Verbena?” Tessa was asking, in her invariably mild sweet way.

As a matter of fact they had been discussing last night’s movie, a lavish musical. Verbena Smith smoothed down her lavender ruffles and smiled uncertainly. She wished Tessa would not ramble so. People frequently asked her if Tessa Alder wasn’t just a little off her head, and Verbena’s no w'as not always as convincing as it might be. But she did enjoy taking tea with Tessa, and going to the movies with her. Then, too, Tessa was old — ^Tessa was sixtyseven, while she was only sixty-one.

"More tea, darling?” Tessa asked, when Verbena, in her old maid’s brown study, neglected to answer her.

Verbena shook her head and sipped from her egg-shell cup significantly. Tessa hummed as she reached behind the little coal stove for her own special earthen pot and poured herself a third cup. Verbena coughed to conceal her smile. Tessa was so odd. She would serve herself from that ugly earthen pot behind the stove, whereas guests were served from the pretty China pot with the cosy on it, the jaunty red and

yellow cosy Verbena herself had knitted Tessa for Christmas. Well, it was likely het way of indicating that her guests were better than she was. Verbena was willing to accept this judgment.

The pursed grimace she put forth to camouflage all this mental activity was intended to be a gracious smile. She would string along with Tessa’s odd fancies, humor the poor thing.

"Sometimes they hang themselves,” she tittered.

"Who — ah — oh, yes! What I meant, Verbena, is that artists are peculiar. They get so intense about their work, and then when their paintings don’t sell and nobody even wants to look at them — ” She tilted her dark eyebrows significantly.

Verbena smiled.

"I know who you’re thinking about. You’re thinking about the young man in the flat upstairs.”

"Mr. 'Teufel. Perhaps. He is an artist — • and come to think, I don’t imagine he sells many paintings.”

"He doesn’t sell any,” Verbena corrected. "We were discussing him only yesterday at the Ladies’ Sewing and Bridge Club.”

"Oh?”

"Mrs. Abernathy’s husband knows all about him. He can’t pay his rent. He can’t pay for anything. He tried to get a loan from the bank, but Mr. Abernathy wouldn’t give him one because of course he has no security. Imagine him trying to put up some of his outlandish pictures as security! Mr. Abernathy said if Mr. Heckle, the grocer, wants to be silly and exchange food for those ridiculous daubs of his, let him. As for Mrs. Abernathy’s husband’s bank — ”

"Poor Mr. Teufel.”

Tessa wagged her head and poured herself more tea.'

"What I say is why doesn’t he go to work? Oh, Tessa, there’s another seagull on your sign.”

"Let him,” Tessa said recklessly. "What else are the dear ladies doing these days, Verbena?”

"Oh, they’re doing some marvelous things for the community, Tessa. Our bazaar alone made enough to plant flowers all along the boardwalk over the city dump




and keep the Bird Fanciers going for another year at least.”

"Poor Mr. Teufel.” Evidently Tessa’s thoughts were jammed on an earlier track.

"Why do you keep saying that, Tessa?” Verbena found Tessa’s vaguenesses very irritating. What she had really hoped from this tea was to acquire some new tidbit to dispense at the card party tonight. "Surely you must knpw something about Mr. Teufel by this time, something the rest of us don’t. Something definite.”

“I never eavesdrop,” Tessa said.

"Of course not, but — ” Verbena wiggled her cup impatiently.

"But I don’t have to with Mr. Teufel. He has a phonograph and he plays it very loudly at all hours. And you can hear every footstep up there, the ceiling is so thin.”

V ERBENA set her cup down and cocked an ear upwards. "I don’t hoar a thing.” "Mr. Teufel is sleeping.”

"At three o’clock!”

"Mr. Teufel always sleeps ’til four. I imagine he paints better at night, although I always thought artists preferred sunlight to artificial light.”

Verbena sniffed. "With the junk he paints I don’t know what difference it makes. All great gobs of nasty colors with no pictures to them at all.**

"Anyway I wish he’d paint in the daytime,” Tessa sighed. "I have to put a pillow over my head to get to sleep, with all that clumping around and that wild music.”

"Any visitors?” Verbena leaned forward. "Any girl visitors?”

"Not that I know of. I doubt if poor Mr. Teufel has any visitors at all.”

"Oh.” Verbena lost her gleam. She stood up briskly. "Well, dear, I must run along home and feed Poo.”

"Your cat,” Tessa said, without relish. There was more chit-chat at the door, and out along the rococo veranda. Tessa watched her gossip-loving guest mince around the pools of water remaining in the sunken portions of the brick patio and destined for early refills. All at once came a great clatter of army surplus shoes over Tessa’s head, down the open stairs leading

to the upper flal:. Lean Mr. Teufel swooped past Verbena so rapidly that Verbena’s umbrella lost its moorings and went skittering and bobbing down the walk.

The artist’s gaunt face lifted in the semblance of a smile when he retrieved and handed it back to her. Verbena emitted an explosive little shriek and drew back, as if Mr. Teufel had been a springing cobra.

Mr. Teufel scowled and said, "Boo!”

Verbena fled.

Mr. Teufel looked at Tessa and grirmed. Tessa smiled politely, then went in the shop and poured herself another drink from the earthen pot.

After a while, sitting there and watching the day gradually droop and vanish, Tessa became quite tiddly. The sun made a last lavish gesture just before it dipped behind the Farallons. Its burst of brilliance highlighted Alcatraz and the populous hills of San Francisco, and put color to the muddy masses of clouds that hemmed in the East Bay horizon. While this was everyday stuff to Tessa, she was not entirely oblivious to its spectacle, and now, when the brilliance was blotted out and the Bay presented the appearance of something-shrouded and good as dead, she shivered. There were seagulls, many seagulls, wheeling ambiguously across the heavy sky. But they were like vultures, and the sound they made, like that last fling of sunlight, only intensified the melancholy assvurance of deafli. . . .

ESSA started thinking about Herb.

It was time to start thinking about

him.

She poured herself another cup of sherry from the earthen pot and let him take over her thoughts. He would anyway.

Thinking about her dead husband had its amusing aspects, when you came right down to it. Maybe that was why she allowed him to keep possession of her emotions and her thoughts now, even as he had while he was alive. Oh yes. Herb had been a greedy man that way. He had expected Tessa to give him first consideration in every , instance, even in her most secret thoughts. In a way she had, too. And there was no reason to assume that Herb’s character had underTHE INSISTENT GHOST


gone any change now that he was dead, even if his physical self had. No, Herb CQuld never change. He would remain as cantankerous, as selfish, as vindictive as ever, until there was no more anything at all.

Of course she had loved him.

He was handsome, bold, amusing. He captured her fancy completely. It was later, years later, when these traits blossomed forth and enveloped her with what was apparently a studied desire to strangle her and crush her.

But Tessa didn’t crush easily. For all her flights of whimsy, Tessa was an intensely practical woman. So practical as to drive Herb insane with rage at times. She refused to accept surface excuses and reasons, dissecting each one to its very core. She saw into Herb as if he were made of plastic, and after a while that made him hate her.- He couldn’t lie to her and foist off cheap excuses or third-class reasoning on her; She always saw what was underneath and indicated she did, in her calm sweet voice.

When his heart went bad — ^mainly from self-indulgence in spite of his doctor’s stern periodic admonishments — ^he blamed Tessa. She should have stopped him. How she could have done this, particularly with a self-willed individual like himself, was something Herb never bothered to consider. He had to blame somebody, besides himself, so he blamed Tessa. He took it out on her both in petty vindictiveness, and by a constant stream of ill-temper that would surely have crushed and destroyed a less valiant creature than wiry little Tessa.

He lost his handsomeness. The lines in his face which had formerly suggested swaggering boldness turned to visual evidences of mean suspicion and lurking sadism. He couldn’t work, so Tessa invested the little money he hadn’t squandered or needed for doctors in "YE OLDE GHOSTE SHOPPE.” She made it pay, too. Not much, to be sure, but enough to keep them independent, if she were very careful.

One thing association with Herb had done for Tessa — good or bad — it had given her a taste for sherry, even mediocre sherry. There were so many remembered times

when it had proved a great solace. But after Herb became really ill, so ill that he could do nothing but sit in his chair and let Tessa wait on him hand and foot while he raged and bellowed about the condition of the world and about Tessa’s inadequacies, there was no more sherry. None for Herb. It would have killed him. None for her because Herb couldn’t have any. They couldn’t afford luxuries, to be sure, but a thimbleful of sherry now and then wouldn’t have made much difference. But Herb said no, and it was folly to cross him.

Herb was a dog in the manger other ways, too. He didn’t want Tessa to take a stroll down the breakwater, or go to the movies, or have any friends. Every facet of her existence must belong to him.

Tessa wanted an occasional glass of sherry, she wanted to see Gregory Peck’s latest, she wanted to hear Verbena’s newest gossip. She wanted to very much. But Herb always provided logical (to him) reasons why she shouldn’t have these things. And it was so much easier to let him have his way. It was easier to stay home and wait on him and listen to his invalid grumblings, because if she didn’t Herb would surely make her pay for it — some way.

T his insistence on revenge for disobedience was carried to fantastic lengths. Herb was very near-sighted, so near-sighted that he couldn’t even read any longer. But he seemed to develop an uncanny secondsight about everything Tessa did. He had to know everything that went on, every tiny little thing. He distrusted all her actions. He would accuse Tessa of stinting him on cream for his gruel. She was saving it for herself — or for somebody who would slip in later. Then he would proceed to take it out on her. Always he must luve his revenge, even when the reason for it existed only in his imagination.

Little things, surely. And yet little horrors, piled one on top of the other, ad infinitum, can lead to desperation. . . .

Tessa began to dream, and in all her dreams there was no Herb. He just wasn’t there. And being essentially a practical person her dreams began to lean toward real88


ity. Herb was near-sighted. For this reason and for selfish reasons he insisted on having a hodge-podge collection of items on a large round table near his chair. Besides his heart medicine, there was salt and catsup and mustard and picture books and a kaleidoscope — and any number of other things.

One day when Herb picked up a vinegar bottle and started spooning vinegar into the water glass Tessa had brought for his medicine, Tessa’s dreams began to take definite shape. She knew about the other medicine bottle in tlie bathroom, the medicine which was not poison but would surely kill a person with a serious heart condition. And she knew just how to provoke Herb into waiting on himself when it came time for his medicine.

Tessa wouldn’t kill Herb. Oh, no. But she would malce it convenient for him to kill himself.

The dangerous medicine bottle found its way onto Herb’s cluttered- table. It became an interesting gamble to see just how long it would be before Herb drank some of that, believing it to be his own medicine. Tessa invented excuses for being out of the room at medicine time, then peeked between the dining room drapes behind Herb to see what happened. It was always a breathless moment. 'Tlien she would breathe a sigh of relief when Herb picked the good bottle. After several months the strained sigh of relief became just a sigh.

A year or so went by. It seemed longer. Tessa dreamed harder than ever. Not only would she be able to have her sherry again when Herb was gone, but there would be more money to afford it. During this long period of waiting and dreaming Tessa determined that if anything happened she would never stint herself. She would go to bed tiddly from sherry every night. She would!

It happened finally and she did.

T essa put her cup down, regretfully, and prepared to shut up shop for .the night. Humming snatches of old songs all mixed together, she took the "Open” sign

out of the window, locked the shop door, and snapped off the light.

Outside tlie seagulls made patterns on the wind. The tide gushed in on the breakwater. Tessa’s driftwood sign creaked gently. Tiny drops of vagrant rain smeared the darkness.

Tessa found her way to bed by feeling the walls, the drapes, the familiar jumble of too much furniture. She went to sleep like a baby. 'There was nothing to prevent. No Herb, with his querulous rasp. No Mr. Teufel, with his wild phonograph music and his clumping. Mr. Teufel was out. And the contents of the earthen pot had made her all warm and cosy inside.

But that warmth wore off — and then something cold, something ice cold, entered the dark room. It was the room Tessa and Herb had shared for so many years. And now the coldness made her shiver and waken. She yawned and half sat up.

"Herb.^” she called, after a long moment. "Is that you?”

There was no other sign — only the cold wind. But somehow she kneu^. All those years with him had given her a sixth sense where Herb was concerned. She could feel those muddy gray, half-blind eyes watching her as they had when he was alive. Crafty, suspicious, vindictive.

"Herb!” She was not afraid, no. But she was startled and imeasy. It wasn’t nice of Herb to come back like this. Her voice cut the darkness sharply. "I know you’re there, sitting in that same chair, just as you always did. Well? Why don’t you answer me?”

Still no answer.

All the same she knew he was there in that big ugly chair of his. She had meant to get rid of that chair right after the funeral, but somehow she hadn’t got to it.

"Herb Alder! I know you’re in this room! You might as well let me see you.”

Her neck muscles twitched. She knew something strange was about to happen. It did happen. Even though this middle room was closed in so that there was no stray light from the outside at all she knew just where to look, and she was looking there. The chair began to glow. It was an untidy

THE INSISTENT GHOST


unrelated mass of phosphorescence, first, then it took shape and became Herb. She could still see the chair behind him, it was as if he were etched on plastic.

"Took you long enough,” Tessa greeted him. "What are you up to? Oh, I see. You are back to spy on me, again. To keep track of everything I do, as you did before. Well, let me tell you. Herb. Last night I went to the movies. With Verbena. Yes, and I’ve seen her nearly every day since you died. And I’ve been drinking sherry, too. Lots of sherry. Herb. Like you couldn’t have and wouldn’t let me have. How do you like that. Herb?”

The figure in the chair didn’t like it. It clouded up redly and elongated, as if to reach out for her.

Tessa began to laugh.

"Trying to frighten me, are you? Let me tell you this. Herb. You never did scare me, with all your yelling and snarling. You didn’t then and you don’t now.”

She paid no attention to the ghost’s feral gyrations. She had always wanted to tell Herb off. Now that he was dead she could. She flared up in a flame of righteous triumph.

"I put up with you a long time. Herb. With your childish tantrums and your petty suspicions. And your little revenge when you thought I was neglecting you or slighting you. Well, I got my share of revenge too! Do you know how. Herb? Haven’t they told you where you are?”

The ghostly figure rippled like so many phosphorescent sea-worms on a glassy night ocean.

"Surprise, surprise. Herb!” Tess chortled, nearly hysterical by now with this supreme adventure of telling Herb off. "It was I who killed you. Herb! It was I who put that bad medicine on your cluttered table. I had to wait a long time for you to pick that bottle. But the gamble kept me amused while I waited. What do you say to all that. Herb?”

Herb expressed himself by elongating almost to the ceiling. He made himself into a luminescent tower of rage. His lips moved and although no spoken words came out , he seemed to be saying: I suspected as much.

That^s why 1 came back. Now I know for certain and now. . . .

"What can you do about it now. Herb?” Tessa taunted him. "What can you do?”

She fell back, rocking with laughter.

A faint wisp of light entered the room, a tenuous harbinger of daylight. A blast of freezing cold swept the room and just before Herb vanished, Tessa was sure she heard him rasp:

'7 always have my revenge, Tessa. Make the most of your freedom, because you have only until tomorrow night. . .

T essa lagged about her duties the next day. Try as she might she could never quite erase diose words from her mind. Her head was fuzzy, too, from over-indulgence in the tea department the day before. She had been a fool to tell Herb she killed him! What a stupid thing to do! And now, typically, he wanted his revenge. 'That ugly rasped threat! Tomorrow night. . . .

He wasn’t giving her much time, was he? The more she thought about it the uneasier she became. She hadn’t a very clear idea just what Herb could do to her, dead and all. But he would do something. Trust Herb. And it wouldn’t be at all nice.

Her frugal lunch of cottage cheese and canned peaches was interrupted by the strident tinkle of the cat-bell over the shop door. She hurried out in front.

"Can I help you?”

It was a young couple, happy honeymooners, trying to match dieir delirious mood in her quaint little shop, inasmuch as the lowering skies outside did not.

"Tell me, is the shop really haunted?” the girl twittered.

"Yes.” Tessa frowned. It used to be rather fun, building up sham gothic romances for tourists. Not now.

"Really?” The new bride bubbled over. Her husband winked at her fondly.

"Who haunts it?” he asked Tessa.

"My husband.”

"No!” The bride, fondling her new husband’s lapel, assumed interest in the shelf nearest her to hide her smile. "Look, dear. Isn’t this just the darlingest little Chinese elephant?”;



e BOOK BARGAINS

COLLECTED GHOST STORIES OF M. R. JAMES $2.13 31 of the Author's finest writintrs

UNIVERSAL STATION B. Brown 1.50

A fine novel of life after death

VISIBLE AND INVISIBLE E. F. Benson 1.23

12 Stories of the occult and supernatural

THE MAN WHO MET HIMSELF E. Crawshay 1.25

Fantastic and Weird short storiee THE MAN WHO ATE THE PHOENIX . .Lord Ounsany f.95 \ 41 Supernatural and Fantastic tales

ALL S FOR $7.50

^ PAPER SOUND SPECIALS ^

Not for the Squeamish : 9 Weird & Horror Tales 304

*‘H” tor Horrific : 6 Ghost Stories 304

The Human Bat : Sclence-tTction Thriller 304

Terror Trap : Weird Adventure 304

Vice Versa (Ulus.) Father & Son expanse bodies 504 Miranda (Ulus.) A Doctor Catches a Mermaid.. 504'

$

tor

$2.00

LEE 6LATT • 5734 Walnut Street • Philadelphia 39-E» Pa.

;«rtiV.V.V.V.V.VJV.%WWWAWWV.%SS^

i • DARK MUSIC • $

AND OTHER SPECTRAL TALES

A superb, chilling collection of 18 weird terror tales "e % by JACK SNOW. A new copy sent postpaid. $2.SO ,■

S • AND THE DARKNESS FALLS •

% A collectian of 72 weird stories chosen by ^

^ Boris Karloff. $2.75 Send orders toi

^ CLAUDE HELD, 372 Dodge Street, Biiffole 8, N. Y. ^ iVe’.VJ*A"eW.SVA%WA"ASWWWJv5i


SCIENCE-FICTION — FANTASY

Brand new, cloth-bound, library-size sample book. Sl.DO. Illustrated catalogues, 10# (refunded).

HOUSE OF STONE

tCNENBUBG 84 MASSACHUSETTS

FANTASY FAN’S BOOK ClOB

Two MORE free books than any other club offers you. Write for details and free catalog of weird and science-fiction books and back-dated magazines.

Werewolf Bookshop 1508-H Riverside Drive Verona* Pennsylvania

"If you think so, sweet. Why does he haunt it?” The young man’s lips twitched suspiciously.

"He wants revenge,” Tessa found herself blurting. "He was murdered, and he’s come back to — ”

"Who murdered him?” The young man peeled off a dollar for the elephant.

Tessa took it, staring at him. "Nobody!” she snapped. "It’s just a story!”

They left, the bride cooing about the quaintness of the shop and the darlingness of the driftwood sign and wasn’t Tessa the cutest thing. Tessa picked up the nearest object to hand with the idea of hurling it after them. It turned out to be the earthen pot, and it wasn’t quite empty. So she sank back in the chair by the window and had a slug.

Two more and she began to relax.

She must think, think, think. What did Herb have up his ghostly sleeve, and how was she going to circumvent him? It was past one already. Not much time. . . .

Think fast, 'Tessa!

Something sifted into her thoughts, interrupting them. Music. Dirge-like music from upstairs. At this hour! Mr. Teufel was actually up at one-thirty, playing his blankety-blank phonograph. 'The dirge ended and was followed by some wild modern dissonances. Tessa couldn’t help listening. After a while it struck her that there was some insidious pattern to Mr. Teufel’s selection of music. It all suggested a particular train of emotion. And when a scratchy, banal interpretation of Good-bye began to smite her eardrums Tessa leaped to her feet.

By the time it repeated for the third time Tessa was upstairs peeking through the bamboo slats into Mr. Teufel’s studio.

"Mr. Teufel, no!” she exclaimed. "You mustn’t do that!”

The young artist was inside, busily engaged in hanging himsdf from the middle rafter.

T essa banged on the door without result, so she whipped out her own door keys and tried them. One of them, with the added impetus of a severe inward push, sent her plunging through.

The studio was sizable but dreary. The bare floor made it ice cold, and the artist’s furnishings consisted mainly of nail kegs and orange crates. Somehow the gay bohemian dash was utterly lacking. True, there was a half-completed oil on his easel, but the canvas had been slashed across as if in a spasm of despondent rage.

"You stop that right now,” she told the emaciated young man on the nail keg. Mr. Teufel was endeavoring to thrust his head

THE INSISTENT GHOST

into an ill-made noose of clothesline rope.

"Why should I?’* he demanded, scowling down at her.

"For one thing you’re not doing it right,” Tessa told him. "Always put the noose around your neck first, then wrap the rope twice around the rafter, overloop, and — never mind!" she finished off tartly.

"What are we uMitmg for, oh, mj heart?” queried the tenor dismally.

. . the leaves must fall, and the lambs must die. ..."

Tessa snapped him off. His voice deepened and mushed out and vanished. The artist stared at her sullenly, then collapsed his lanky frame to a sitting position on the keg. Tessa marched about the room briskly. Mr. Teufel’s studio was an exact replica of her own bedroom, except for the lack of furniture and the rafters. Paint it up a little, apply a few rugs and pictures, and it would be livable.

Tessa turned her attention to the artist.

"You make an awful amount of noise nights,’’ she reprimanded him. "Don’t you realize you’re supposed to sleep nights and work days?’’

"Then why didn’t you let me go through with It?’’ he demanded bitterly. "Suppose you go downstairs now and forget what you saw.’’ He brightened perceptibly.

"That wouldn’t help,” Tessa said. "You need furniture. The place is like a barn.”

"I need a lot of things — including talent.” He got up and began to pace. The clump of his army surplus shoes on the bare floor was all too familiar, although easier to take here than downstairs. Pacing up and down was, then, one of the best things Mr. Teufel did. And his self-expressed lack of talent was the bone of contention.

"Who says you have no talent?” Tessa’s sharp eyes traveled to a nearby corner, to a heap of canvases carelessly tossed therein. They, like the one on the easel, had been slashed across.

"Everybody says so,” the artist growled irritably. "Yesterday was my last chance to prove to myself that I might someday be an artist, even a passable good artist. A critic from Paris was visiting San Fran91

CASH FOR WEIRD T2U.ES

1 will buy ony issues of WEIRD TALES Useed before 1932. I also wont to buy HORROR STORIES, STRANGE TALES, TERROR TALES, and any collections of Fontoslic Mo^o* zines ond Books. Describe condition and quote price wonted.

CLAUDE HELD

372 DODGE STREET BUFFALO 8, N. Y.

NEW RANNES BOK REPRODUCTION

SupCTb copy of original, never before pnbUAed Weird drawing 9 x IS In. ,AIk) inehided, copy of famous book cover by Bok. Both for 10^. Vrte list Fantasy books for sale and rent.

COCHECO LIBRARY doverI'iTh.

Two Anthologies of Weird and Spectral Tales

^ DARK MUSIC AND OTHER SPECTRAL TALES

by JACK 8NCW

Very ftne weird shorts by % very floe snthor. Betotlfal dost ja^et by Hon dyne. This is a $2.50 book, we want eoly $1.49 y COME NOT LUCIFER llluttrated by R. A. BRANDT A besutifuUy Illustrated collection of shorts ^ masters of weird writing. Printed la IxindoD for $3.75. Only $1.49

Send for our price list u>d our list of free bonus books. Pant&ty bonus with every order.

PERSONAL BOOK SERVICES ^3 Market Areade Building BufTate 3. New York

★ ★ ★ FOR SALE ★ ★ ★ WEIRD TALE COLLECTION

over 200 BOOKS FROM 1920-1950 Books In exeollsnt condition. Att eovere teteet. About one dozen Books Missing for Compfete Cellestlon.

Read tbe Original Stories by the Great Uasters, tome of whom ave now long dead. Beautiful 0>rer Masterpieces by M. Brundage. ITnexcelUMi black and whites by the Great Virtrfl Plnley!

A Wonderful Opportunity • No retsodable offer refoMd.

Wiittqre P. Brucw • 204^05 23rci Aw. • Poyldw, L. I., N. Y.

35 CENTS

Tk* Lost Space Ship by Mvrray L»lint»r Cosmic Geeids by JoHa Toiae

Who Goes There by Joba W. Campbell, Jr. Exiles of Time by Nelson Bend

Slaves of Sleep by L Ren Hubbard

The Homuncaius by David H. Keller, MD The World Below by S. Fowler Wright Revelations in Block by Carl JocobI Lurker At the Tkresheld by H. P. Lavecraft Venus Equilateral by George O. Smith

These, and scores of other titles by famous classic and modern writers, are yours to read for as little as 3W rental charge The cream of the current fantasy crop ; new publishers’ editions IN BOOK FORM of the most famous titles in the realm of the weird, fantastic and science-fiction.

Write to World Wide for detailed In-. formation on this new rental service, and a complete llstlna of titles.

WORLD WIDE FANTASY BOOK SERVICE

2419 SOUTH SEVENTH STREET Philodelpkia 48, Panntylvanio



HEART ATTACK OR INDIGESTION?

THANE BHAYENS t Most attacks are just acid Indifirestioft. When it strikes, take Bell-ans tablets. They contain the fastest-acting: medicines known to doctors for the relief of heartburn* sas and similar distress. 25c.

Hi£h School Course

at Home

Muay Finlsli in 2 Yetvs

■ Go as I eqtii'

I

. jur time and abilities permit. Coarse

lent Bchool work — prepares for eoUesre

cDtEesce exams. Stendard H. 8. texts eapplied. Diploma. Cr«dttf«r B. 8. HdkjeeU alreadf oonpleted. Shtsla eabjeetn If dnetrvd. Hlsb nebooi edaoatioB b verr Important for adaaocenMot m boeieaaa a^ bdostiT and aacbllr. Don't be basdiaapped aS yyor life. Be a Hlefc Sefaool cradnate. Start roar training nev. rree BnUettn eo reqaett. Mo obUgatioa.

Ani«i1caaS«lKKii,0*pUtC49, Draxalat58tb,Cliica(o37

WANT

OffXK

IbUonallr adfertiaed Card Ass’ll — sell oidr 100 — make op la $501 Coopleta lioa Xmas, Eretydays, Wraps. Statlomry. Als. dramatic "Spang-l-ettes” and Kamoas-Prizs- Assfs; Notes: Name Imprinted XiBasCards.40(er$lop.Uptsl00% profit. Honey back fnarantaa. Reqnest -Priig- and mnel Hetalli*

Xmaa Boxes on approraL

CHILTON CREETINCS, 147 Essex St., Dept. S-33, Boston, Maas.

30 FREE SAMPLES

Cum I

-Sine. I8S8*

1 or Dent's Tooth Drops for cavity toothaches. Use Dent's Dental Poultice tor pain or soreness in gums or teeth. At all drug stores.

DENT’S

TOOTH GUM TOOTH DROPS DENTAL POULTICE

affects mail) efuferta itratelint b cfinftrt ami relief bi

Used ky ehil idrts i»ail)i*/^ cental) on lANB isA SEA.

INVENTORS

If you bolieve thAt you havg an iaTention. you should find out how to protect It. We are registered Patent Attorneys. Send for copy of our Patent Booklet "How to Protect Tour InTention/* and an "Inyention Record'* form. No obligatimi. They are yours for the asking.

McMORROW, BERMAN & DAVIDSON

fSO-K Victor Bailding

Registered Patent Attorneys

WashingtoR I, D. C.

Learn CRIME Detection!

laearn Scientific Criminology AT HOME. Opportunities in Inrestlgation and Detective work — IdentUloatioB — Finger Printing — Homicide IaTe.^tlgatiOQ — Infrared Photography— Photo-micrography for law enforcement. Send fc^ FREE Book.

institute of Scientific Criminology __

31« So. Robertson Blvd., Los Angelee 48, Caalff. Dept. PP7

AMr^

cisco. All the others said I stink, but Qiarles Demeaux is notoriously aloof from them. He helped a friend of mine once, a nobody like ihe, just on the strength of what he saw in his paintings. My friend told him about me, and yesterday a letter came saying Charles Demeaux would see me if I could get over there yesterday, as he was leaving today. I waited until twelvethirty last night in the rain, until he came •home from the ballet. Demeaux was very kind. He fed me I don’t know how many crepe suzettes and how many glasses of wine. But when it came to my paintings — ”

“He didn’t like them?’’

A spasm of utter misery crossed the artist’s gaunt face. "He didn’t say it like that. He was too kind, too polite. But that’s what it boiled down to. No talent. No expression. No future in art. Nothing!”

Mr. Teufel was plainly a man obsessed. His world had crumbled. Tessa made a tentative effort to cheer him up.

“There must be other critics. Maybe you are ahead of your time.”

“They all pretend that.” Mr. Teufel’s lip curled. “Not me. At least I can be honest with myself. I’m no good. I never have been and I never will be.”

“Of course I don’t exactly understand — ” Tessa said soothingly.

“No, you don’t!” Mr. Teufel raged. “You don’t know a damn thing about it, so why don’t you get the hell out of here and leave me alone? Nobody understands anything! The world is full of sadistic morons who pretend to mean well. Bah! Bring on your atom bombs! The sooner the better!”

Tessa’s sharp eyes widened, then closed.

“Well?” Mr. Teufel glared at her scornfully. “Aren’t , you going to go call the police or something?”

“Nope,” Tessa said. "I’ve got a job for you.”

Mr. Teufel’s expression told her what he thought of work. Tessa just waited.

“Well, if I’m forced to delay my departure I guess I’ll have to eat sometime. What kind of a job?”

"I want you to help me move some fur-i niture. Yes, I’m giving it to you, Mr. Teufel — in return for a small favor,”

THE INSISTENT GHOST

9?

rpESSA slept well that night. She went -I- to sleep brimming over with great satisfaction in having done a good deed. There was nothing, she told herself before Morpheus took over, quite as edifying to a human being as having performed a kindness for another human being.

Near dawn she woke with a start. The thought that awakened her was the illusion that she had missed her cue, that her alarm clock hadn’t gone off, that she had left a dangerous heater burning all night. Something. . . .

And yet full consciousness assured her it was actually none of those things.

The springs creaked as she hiked herself up on the pillows. She cast her eyes about the darkness but she saw no shred of light anywhere. It was as if she had just missed hearing something.

"Herb?"

Her whisper vibrated into the dark, but there was no answer.

Then it came, a far-off sound like a sigh. Or was it only a seagull calling mournf^ly over the dark waters? Tessa chose to think it wasn’t a seagull. She folded aside the covers and slid her legs down on-fthe shag rug. Her feet groped for her sheepskinlined slippers and invaded them. Without snapping on a light she found her robe and wrapped it around her, A habitual toss of* her long black hair to unsnarl it from the collar and she went to the outside door.

She idled a second or two, listening to the swirling sucking noises the tide made as it drained away from the rocks, then she pattered to Mr. 'Teufel’s door and listened.

She heard nothing.

She applied her key and pushed. , . .

'There had been sounds in there, mysterious sounds, and movements. She could sense their aftermath. Now there was only darkness and the cold swirling of air, as if a grave had opened and closed.

"Mr, Teufel!” she called across the room.

She knew exactly where the bed was. She knew just where everything was, inasmuch as she had given Mr. Teufel most of this furniture and had helped him arrange it.

"Are you there, Mr. Teufel?”

FAST-BITE”

FISH BAIT

JUST FROM AND

to

GUARANTEED TO CATCH FISH FASTER THAN LIVE BAIT OR RETURN IN 10 DAYS AND GET YOUR MONEY BACK

y ft of magic worm- like bait Squeeze out of tube tike tooth paste. Secret io^edient attracts fish faster than live bait Keep indefinitely, won’t freeze or melt, stays on hook in ranning stream or long cast Used with success by thousands of fishermen on alt types of fish. Absolutely harmless. No mess or bother. Carry in tackle box or pocket

CLIP THIS AD AND HAIL wiili only S1.00

to receive tube of FAST-BITE, postage prepaid, on 10 day money back offer.

ILLINOIS MERCHANDISE MART

Dept. 7081

1227 LOYOLA AVE. CHICAGO 2«, ILLINOIS

Many have learned ftoai. bitter^, extierienee that a high eehoof di^<»na )s necessary to get that better job. Why nol improve your eunlnSjpoesibilitiefl by enrolling with wayneT Noehi^si spare-time home study; standard texts; easy tains. Wayne training prepares yon for college eomrnce exams. Take that i firet step n<M0 to bigger thinoa— | write for detailed mfongagon. I

WAYNE SCHOOL

2525 S h af f isid Avnnoa .

Dept.HC-2 Cli l ca gn 14p ML

JdHLETES FOOT

Dr. Scholl’s Fast Relief mi Healii^ AM!

Df Scholls SOIVEX

Don’t wait! Get Dr. S<^k)]F8 SOLVEX today! This fansouS pr^cription of Dr. Scholl’s quickly relieves itching, kills fungi of Athlete’s Foot on contact, aids rapid healing of red, raw, cracked or peeling skin. Insist on Sr. {Roll’s SOLVEX.

In Liquid, Ointment or Powder form*




WORLD'S

LARGEST SELLING PLUG t

Noted for its Hfeltlce action. The only lore with offset hooklns. That's why it catches ’em for ke^>e. World’s largrest aellins plusr* Made in 26 colors. Underwater, surface and troIHnpr models, $1.S6 each. Musky, 61.65. Flyrod sixe. $ 1 . 10 .

Send for FREE 48-pafire booklet, with plufiT-fishinff secrets of famous anslezs.

HELIN TACKLE CO.

6343 Alford D«trttit 7, MieH.

fRM!

SEND FOR THIS

Make money. Know how to break and train hcases. Wriu today for iMs book ysSSt tog^er with sp^al after of a eour8s_la Animal Breeding. If you and Riding the saddte

yetaterested In Oaittac norr ‘ .

arse, cheek here ( } Do it tooait — sow.

BKCRY tCHOOI. OP HOmKMANSHIP Dert. ta Pleasant HIU, OMa

NERVOUS STOMACH

ALLIMIN icKeves dtscressiog symptoms of ’’nervous stomach** — heaviness after meais, beichin^ bloating and colie due to gas. ALIJMIN has bcM scieotincally tested by doctors and found highly effective. World famous— more than a billion sold to date. Ac ail drug stores on money-back guarantee.

ALLIMIN Garlic Tablets

Tops in

Thrills and Chills!

In fAe next Issue— yarns by COUNSELMAN • DERLETH BLOCH • WAKEFIELD

Still no answer.

’’Herb?"'

Nothing.

T essa took a deep breath and pulled the string that switched on the ceiling light. The room leaped harshly to life. Ah. There was Herb’s big chair, which she had given Mr. Teufel. And by it was Herb’s old table, the one that used to be so cluttered. All there was on it now was an empty bottle.

There was no label on the bottle, none at all, but it looked like some kind of medicine Herb had taken at one time but which a normal heart could never stand. It was rather careless of Tessa not to have thrown it out, and to have scrupulously removed the label.

She didn’t touch it. There would be fingerprints.

The bed was quite a mess, as if Mr. Teufel had threshed about in the throes of great misery — or under the hypnotic influence of some demanding spectre. But now that he was dead Mr. Teufel looked so calm, so peaceful, so happy with the world — or to be leaving it.

Tessa smiled there a moment, as at some teasing memory. 'Then she stepped softly out on the veranda and locked the door behind her. 'The sky was brighter now. There would be sun today, bright sun.

Tessa leaned on a rococo pillar and sighed. If Herb hadn’t been quite so insistent on his revenge — Anyway, now he could rest in peace. And so could dear Mr. Teufel. He had been so definite about destroying himself, and who can stop a man from doing that if he has firmly made up his mind? And it was so much nicer than hanging himself, so neat. No bother for anybody.

Herb had followed his cue to perfection. His ironic revenge had consisted of forcing Tessa to drink medicine that would kill her, too. Only Herb couldn’t know that Tessa had got Mr. Teufel to exchange flats with her this afternoon, and poor Herb was so nearsighted —

THE INSISTENT GHOST


OL €u

AJrtie

{Continued from page 6)

of that "batch,” but not us. We have been receiving some variation of this promise every week for the last three months — sometimes word of an impending cover is included — but that is all we get. We are holding a good story (all set, too) for the cover, we are holding our readers at bay about the promised Weirdisms, we are holding our breath, but so far to no avail.

The Editor, Weird Tales.

The Editor, Weird Tales 9 Rockefeller Plaza, New York 20, N. Y.

I am quite glad you have decided to reinstate the letter department, altvays one of your magazine’s better features. A mag with no letter column seems empty and lifeless, somehow. Please keep it in. Please let us see more of Dolgov on the covers. . . . Clark Ashton Smith, one of this reader’s favorite contemporary poets, appears in WT only tooseldom for me. His latest poem had his usual fine imagery, mood, and colorful choice of words, although I cart' t completely admire the poetic form. Keep up the poems, though. Good luck with future issues!

Lin Carter

1734 Newark St. So., St. Petersburg, Fla.

I

The Editor, Weird Tales 9 Rockefeller Plaza, New York 20, N. Y.

I think the July issue is in most ways, an improvement. You keep a nice variety of writers, the style of Quinn always a bit sentimental (perhaps better described as morbidly sentimental), balances nicely with the English stories of H. R. Wakefield, and all the other regulars. I only wis'h Quinn would bring Jules de Grand in* onto the scene more often. ... I suggest a forecast of the next issue notice each time you make up the contents.

Bob Barnett, 1107 Lyon, Cathage, Mo.

•There’s one in the shop now.

The Editor, Weird Tales.

V rrecision maaa LiKe Keal ogn

• Hard Rubber Handle

• Polished Chrome Finish

• Perfect Pocket Size (3* z

Here it is I The aulomolie cigorette lighter that's sweeping the countr/. Mode exactly like real gun . . . it's sure to foot your Irlends. When you take It out they will gasp... pull the trigger and you've got cs sure light every time. Order yours todoyl $4.9S prepald— we poy postage. C.O. D.you poy postage plus C.O. D. charge. Either way if not completely satisfied, return within Sdoys for fidl refund.

Click Safes Ce.

_ Oept. O

INVENTORS

Learn bow to protect your loTMitico. Seeoro '^Patent Ooido^ ^ gether with ''Record of InTeotloo** form-^tbout obllfattMk.

CLAKENCB A. O'BRfEM « HARVSY JACOBSON

Regittered Pofenf Attorneys

02G-G District National Bldg. Washington 5, D. C.

MONEY FOR YOU -SELL samples

CHRISTMAS CARDS-UP TO 100% PROFIT

NAME PRINTED

Make Money Easily. $50 profit acDtns Feature Boxes. Complete line big ralii^ fast aelllng plastic, metallic Christmas and Btery* day cards. Smart gift items, l^mbossed de* signed cards, stattozkery, napkins, coaster* with name 50 for $l up. No money or experience oeedtd Ptmd raising plan for ^ttrehee and clube. SpSedsi bargain Cash bonus. Write for samples <m appro>paL

EMPIRE CARD CO.. 140 Fox S»., Elmira,

CARDS, NAPKINS

APdoSTATIONCRy

I «e wtmrt, I aln offeee. I

I, N. Y. I

P STUDY AT HOME for Businem Succem and LARGER PERSONAL EARNINGS. 40 years expert instruction — oner 114,000 students enrolled. LL.B. Degrea awarded. All text material furnished. Easy payment plan. Send for FREE BOOK — “Law and Executive Guidance”— NOW!

AMERICAN EXTENSION SCHOOL OF LAW

Dept. B-29, 646 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago IF, Illinois

Give your youngster a TRAoTALL ler the Joy-ride of a lifetinM I Looka

last like a man^size Tractor. The perfect gift for boye. sirla, up w 12 years Pedal^drlveiu Sola only direct from factory. WrHs fer LKaratnre, FREE trial offer. INUNDMFG.eORP.Dnl PG-8. 164 EiUnUn.lllsliS.IL1S.



NO Selling ... NO Demonstrating . . . . . . NO Collecting ... NO investment

MnA our moa etm 19 to $200 per week Hetlng past due •aeouDto of retaUcm, doctor*, seliools and merchants of all UDds.

Oitr eoneeUoa wndoe Is welcomed and needed by every basin fs wxtmdiDg eonsttmsr oredlt.

Tour only duty Is to Ust the name, address, amount aiul date of last ^lar^ of debtors on which your ^ents are ready to give uxx Xhs rest is up to us.

Ton will bs dealing excluilTely with the more substantial ettivns of each ootnnumity.

If yea can make an tmpreaBioo sufficiently dignified to eaose prospeodre oUents to pennit your Inspection and dissuasion of their aoooimSs. tbts is yoor opportunity to earn some of ths biggest money of your Ufa No experience necessary. Work full or part time.

lian ttooi ages 90-70 prsferred. Must be free to travel.

Wdto or wire today

rrtsidMt, METROPOLITAN FINANCE CORPORATION

Temple Bciildlnp, Dept. P>gO. Kanese City, Miseour)

CTSuKetHm-whi you cun

^PREVENT FORiSrnRB!

The Editor, Weird Tales 9 Rockefeller Plaza, New York 20, N. Y.

On the science-fiction vs. fantasy controversy, 1 want to throw my vote solidly on the fantasy side.

The world is now filled with science-fiction, while there is (to my knowledge) only one Weird Tales. It’s quite bad enough, getting WT only every two months. If, in addition half of it is to be given over to stories of a kind that can be found in half a dozen other publications, that’s just too much.

As you doubtless know even better than your readers, good stories of fantasy and the supernaturd are hard to come by. If you give us what your title stands for and we pay our money to get, we fans of the supernatural will be faithful to Weird Tales.

James W. Hoffman, Holmes, Pennsylvania.

The Editor, Weird Tales 9 Rockefeller Plaza, New York 20, N. Y.

I want to compliment your magazine on the improved quality of your stories. Years ago 1 read the magazine, but quit because o/ the horror stories which had a very bad effect upon my mind.

Recently I became interested in sciencefiction and fantasy, and began buying the magazines again, and among them your July issue.

I liked the story "Shallajai” very much, and wish you would print many more like it. It was good fantasy with truth as a basis, and you cannot fail when you print stories of that type. 1 do not like your covers, nor illustrations, for they are definitely horror stuff, and as such should not be printed for the greater good of the common welfare. I believe the science-fiction-fantasy field is under the guidance of evolutionary forces, and as such will grow up into something that will be uplifting and noble. It has a great future, and will surely evolve out of the lurid and horrible. There is much for mankind to learn of the etheric worlds, and of himself if you please, but it is for his good and not for his detriment as horrors are, (Mrs.) Naomi Holly, Gjlton, California.

^ Guaranteed by .Good Housekeeping

4PvtRT1StD

fres

hxioh

EVSKYTHING GIVGN FKGG

Risk nolhing! Mail coupon and we will send you, free and prepaid* complete money-making outfits including sample nylon stocking* samples of Iin> gerie, robes* housecoats and men's hose fabrics and everything you need to immediately start making money. Complete outfits become your property even if you don't send any business. Simply write orders, we deliver and collect. Advance cash plus huge bonus.

No money or experience needed. Mailing the coupon is all you need to start on the road to a 52-weeks-of-the-year high paying business of your own. You have everything to gain and nothing to lose.

.1950

KENDEX CORP. p„„ _ _

BABYLON 49, N.Y.

Send me, free and prepaid, everything 1 need to moke money os a Kendex dealer, including somple stocking etc. There is nothing for me to poy now or loter ond I om under no obligation in accepting your money-moking outfits.

EXPERIENCE

ADVERTISED

PRODUCTS

yommosf/i

HAVE A PROFIT MAKING BUSINESS

OF YOUR 0WN_

fOUR MOUEY’MAKm LINES

• WOMEN'S NYLON HOSIERY e GLAMOROUS LINGERIE e HOUSECOATS -ROBES e MEN'S HOSIERY

A UFSTIMe FUTUHE

Man or woman — young or old, YOU can earn a steady income in full or spare time as an independent Kendex dealer. Amazing and almost “impossible” earnings can become a reality for you. Herbert Armstrong of Tenn. earned $202 in 9 days. C. O. Watkins of Oregon sent 92 orders in one day. You have the same opportunity to duplicate these exceptional earnings. Over one million dollars will be earned in 1950 by Kendex dealers — why not let us establish you in your own business and get a share of these wonderful earnings?

KFNOFX NYLOHS KFPLACFD FUFF . . .

if they run or snag within guarantee period up to three months! Impossible? It's true! No matter what the catise — hard use or deliberate abuse — whether it is fault of the hose or the wearer — Kendex nylons are replaced FREE if they run, snag or become unfit for wear within the guarantee period. How cotild any woman resist a positive guarantee of satisfaction when she can obtain it without paying any more than other standard advertised brands? Kendex nylons are NOT sold in stores, so you have no competition. Complete line includes everything from heavy 70 denier service weight to gossamer luxurious ultra sheer 15 denier 60 gauge. Proportioned sizes and lengths. Latest colors plus white.

UNGFKtF - KOBFS - HOUSFCOATS - MFN'S HOSF

In a<ldition to the sensational Kendex nylons, you will have a complete line of glamorous lingerie, beautiful robes and housecoats plus a complete line of Kentcraft mens’ hosiery guaranteed for one full year. Any pair or pairs of men’s hose that does not give satisfactory wear within one year of purchase will be replaced FREE!

NATIONALLY AOVFPTISFD

Kendex will spend over $350*000.00 in 1950 to tell millions of readers of the advantages in buying from you. Almost every issue of Good Housekeeping, Saturday Evening Post* McCall’s* Women’s Home Companion and Ladies’ Home Journal carry our advertising in addition to many others. Kendex has advertised in Life, Look, Collier’s, etc. Awarded Good Housekeeping Seal. Thousands of orders are shipped daily from coast to coast.

KENDEX CORP., BABYLON 49, N. Y.

Name... . _

r-7—

Best tire value starts INSIDE... with

B.E Goodrich

RYTHM RIDE

GIVES YOU MORE SAFETY, COMFORT, MILES

** Under the liift Top the secret of top performance is teamworky'* says limmett Kelly. *'And a look inside a Ji. F. Coo<lrich Silvertotvn shows that's true of tires as uW//’

Look inside a B. F. Goodrich tire yourself: Nolc how the cords are precision spaced in live rubber with no crQss-ihrcads! Thai’s why they flex in rythm (seebeloiv) to give you the best tire value— "Rythm Ride!”

Yet ** Rythm Ride'* tires cost no more. See your B. F. Goodrich retailer for convenient terms and generous tradednl

EMMETT KELLY

WorU's most Jamoui cirettt closers, toys:

"LOOK INSIDE FOR . INSiDE PROOF”

IF YOU CAN TELL WHICH CIRCUS RIDERS ARE BEST, YOU CAN TELL WHICH TIRE IS BEST:

1 Every lire has thoxisands of Curds that flex as you ride. In ino.st tires, these cords are hampered by non-ivorking cross>thrcads. Result : They're out of rythm like the bareback .•nder and clowns above.

2 B. F. Goodrich lire cords have no cross-threads to hinder their action. They work in rythm like the circus stars above. Carry impact from one to another, smother road shock, reduce w'ear, cushion bumps.

3 Most lire cords arc bunched and gapped by slender cross threa<ls. weak spots, "slacker cords”, overworked cords result. BFG cords, instead, are sealed in live rubber, with uniform spacing and tension.

4 Look inside — then <lccide.

Only B. F. Goodrich can give you "rythmic-flexing cords” in every tire for every nce<l. Sec ^our BFG retailer. Buy now. The B. F. Goodrich Company, Akron, Ohio.

[THE END]
