============================================================
Weird Tales
Volume , Number 
Date: September 1936
============================================================
============================================================
TABLE OF CONTENTS

  1. "Red Nails (part 2) Robert E" by Howard
  2. "Death Holds the Post . . . ." by August W. Derleth and Mark Schorer
  3. "Lycanthropus C" by Edgar Bolen
  4. "Werewolf of the Sahara G. G" by Pendarves
============================================================
============================================================
RED NAILS (PART 2) ROBERT E
by Howard
============================================================
him a horrid odor, fetid, hotly offensive — the odor of iniquity and ancient bloody death.

"You con never reach the coast. There is no escape from Xuchotl."

jf^ed Nails

By ROBERT E. HOWARD

One of the strangest stories ever written — the tale of a barbarian adventurer, a woman pirate, and a weird roofed city inhabited by the most peculiar race of men ever spawned

The Story Thus Far who insulted her and deserted, fleeing

VALERIA, a woman pirate forced into the wilderness that lay to the south,

by circumstances to join a mer- Conan, a Cimmerian, followed her, and

cenary army stationed on the caught up with her in a forest after a long

Stygian-Darfar border, killed an officer pursuit. Conan was enamored of her, but

Tki» btory began in VFKJRD TAXES fur July 202


tWEERD TALES

she was suspicious and resentful. While they argued, a dragon, prehistoric survival of a forgotten age, killed their horses, and the adventurers took refuge on a rocky crag, whence they sighted a plain beyond the forest and a city in the plain.

Conan killed the dragon with a spear dipped in the juice of a poisonous fruit, and they made their way to the city. They found it apparently deserted — a weird place, built all under one roof, without open streets, the halls and chambers illuminated by the means of burning jewels in the ceilings, and all the floors composed of red stone that smoldered like flame.

While exploring it, they became temporarily separated, and Valeria was amazed to see a dark-skinned man of repulsive appearance slinking with evident fear and caution along a hallway. She followed him, on a gallery above the hall, and presently saw him again, lying on the floor with his throat cut. Another man similar to the first appeared, who was overwhelmed with fright at the sight of the corpse. As he turned to flee, a hideous apparition appeared wearing a luminous skull whose effect was hypnotic upon the onlooker. Valeria cut the thing down, disclosing it as a man wearing the enchanted skull of an ancient wizard.

The man she had rescued told her he was called Techotl, and the name of the city was Xuchotl. He told her his people, the Tecuhltli, dwelt in the western part of the city, and another clan, their enemies, the Xotalancas, dwelt in the eastern part. He was urging her to follow him to Tecuhltli when four Xotalancas rushed in upon them.

The story continues:

She killed the first who came within reach before he could strike a blow, her long straight blade splitting his skull even as his own sword lifted for a stroke*

She side-stepped a thrust, even as she parried a slash. Her eyes danced and her lips smiled without mercy. Again she was Valeria of the Red Brotherhood, and the hum of her steel was like a bridal song in her ears.

Her sword darted past a blade that sought to parry, and sheathed six inches of its point in a leather-guarded midriff. The man gasped agonizedly and went to his knees, but his tall mate lunged in, in ferocious silence, raining blow on blow so furiously that Valeria had no oppor* tunity to counter. She stepped back coolly, parrying the strokes and watching for her chance to thrust home. He could not long keep up that flailing whirlwind. His arm would tire, his wind would fail; he would weaken, falter, and then her blade would slide smoothly into his heart. A sidelong glance showed her Techotl kneeling on the breast of his antagonist and striving to break the other's hold on his wrist and to drive home a dagger.

Sweat beaded the forehead of the man facing her, and his eyes were like burning coals. Smite as he would, he could not break past nor beat down her guard. His breath came in gusty gulps, his blows began to fall erratically. She stepped back to draw him out — and felt her thighs locked in an iron grip. She had forgotten the wounded man on the floor.

Crouching on his knees, he held her with both arms locked about her legs, and his mate croaked in triumph and began working his way around to come at her from the left side. Valeria wrenched and tore savagely, but in vain. She could free herself of this clinging menace with a downward flick of her sword, but in that instant the curved blade of the tall warrior would crash through her skull. The wounded man began to worry at her bare thigh with his teeth like a wild beast.

She reached down with her left hand and gripped his long hair, forcing his.

RED NAILS

207,

head back so that his white teeth and rolling eyes gleamed up at her. The tall Xotalanc cried out fiercely and leaped in, smiting with all the fury of his arm. Awkwardly she parried the stroke, and it beat the flat of her blade down on her head so that she saw sparks flash before her eyes, and staggered. Up went the sword again, with a low, beast- like cry of triumph — and then a giant form loomed behind the Xotalanc and steel flashed like a jet of blue lightning. The cry of the warrior broke short and he went down like an ox beneath the pole-ax, his brains gushing from his skull that had been split to the throat.

"Conan!" gasped Valeria. In a gust of passion she turned on the Xotalanc whose long hair she still gripped in her left hand. "Dog of hell!" Her blade swished as it cut the air in an upswinging arc with a blur in the middle, and the headless body slumped down, spurting blood. She hurled the severed head across the room.

"What the devil's going on here?" Conan bestrode the corpse of the man he had killed, broadsword in hand, glaring about him in amazement.

Techotl was rising from the twitching figure of the last Xotalanc, shaking red drops from his dagger. He was bleeding from the stab deep in the thigh. He stared at Conan with dilated eyes.

"What is all this?" Conan demanded again, not yet recovered from the stunning surprize of finding Valeria engaged in a savage battle with these fantastic figures in a city he had thought empty and uninhabited. Returning from an aimless exploration of the upper chambers to find Valeria missing from the room where he had left her, he had followed the sounds of strife that burst on his dumfounded ears.

"Five dead dogs!" exclaimed Techotl, his flaming eyes reflecting a ghastly exultation. "Five slain! Five crimson nails for the black pillar! The gods of blood be thanked!"

He lifted quivering hands on high, and then, with the face of a fiend, he spat on the corpses and stamped on their faces, dancing in his ghoulish glee. His recent allies eyed him in amazement, and Conan asked, in the Aquilonian tongue: "Who is this madman?"

Valeria shrugged her shoulders.

"He says his name's Techotl. From his babblings I gather that his people live at one end of this crazy city, and these others at the other end. Maybe we'd better go with him. He seems friendly, and it's easy to see that the other clan isn't."

Techotl had ceased his dancing and was listening again, his head tilted sidewise, dog-like, triumph struggling with fear in his repellent countenance.

"Come away, now!" he whispered. "We have done enough! Five dead dogs! My people will welcome you! They will honor you! But come! It is far to Tecuhltli. At any moment the Xotalancs may come on us in numbers too great even for your swords."

"Lead the way," grunted Conan. Techotl instantly mounted a stair leading up to the gallery, beckoning them to follow him, which they did, moving rapidly to keep on his heels. Having reached the gallery, he plunged into a door that opened toward the west, and hurried through chamber after chamber, each lighted by skylights or green fire-jewels.

"What sort of a place can this be?" muttered Valeria under her breath.

"Crom knows!" answered Conan. "I've seen his kind before, though. They live on the shores of Lake Zuad, near the border of Kush. They're a sort of mongrel Stygians, mixed with another race that wandered into Stygia from the east some centuries ago and were absorbed by them.



They're called Tlazitlans. I'm willing to bet it wasn't they who built this city, though."

Techotl's fear did not seem to diminish as they drew away from the chamber where the dead men lay. He kept twisting his head on his shoulder to listen for sounds of pursuit, and stared with burning intensity into ever)- doorway they passed.

Valeria shivered in spite of herself. She feared no man. But the weird floor beneath her feet, the uncanny jewels over her head, dividing the lurking shadows among them, the stealth and terror of their guide, impressed her with a nameless apprehension, a sensation of lurking, inhuman peril.

"They may be between us and Tecuhltli!" he whispered once. "We must beware lest they be lying in wait!"

"Why don't we get out of this infernal palace, and take to the streets?" demanded Valeria.

"There are no streets in Xuchotl," he answered. "No squares nor open courts. The whole city is built like one giant palace under one great roof. The nearest approach to a street is the Great Hall which traverses die city from the north gate to the south gate. The only doors opening into the outer world are the city gates, through whidi no living man has passed for fifty years."

"How long have you dwelt here?" asked Con an.

"I was born in the castle of Tecuhltii thirty-five years ago. I have never set foot outside the city. For the love of the gods, let us go silently! These halls may be full of lurking devils. Olmec shall tell you all when we reach Tecuhltii."

So in silence they glided on with the green fire-stones blinking overhead and the flaming floors smoldering under their feet, and it seemed to Valeria as if they

fled through hell, guided by a dark-faced, lank-haired goblin.

Yet it was Conan who halted them as they were crossing an unusually wide chamber. His wilderness-bred ears were keener even than the ears of Techotl, whetted though these were by a lifetime of warfare in those silent corridors.

"You think some of your enemies may be ahead of us, lying in ambush?"

"They prowl through these rooms at all hours," answered Techotl, "as do we. The halls and chambers between Tecuhltii and Xotalanc are a disputed region, owned by no man. We call it the Halls of Silence. Why do you ask?"

"Because men are in the chambers ahead of us," answered Conan. "I heard steel clink against stone."

Again a shaking seized Techotl, and he clenched his teeth to keep them from chattering.

"Perhaps they are your friends," suggested Valeria.

"We dare not chance it," he panted, and moved with frenzied activity. He turned aside and glided through a doorway on the left which led into a chamber from which an ivory staircase wound down into darkness.

"This leads to an unlighted corridor below us!" he hissed, great beads of perspiration standing out on his brow. "They may be lurking there, too. It may all be a trick to draw us into it. But we must take the chance that they have laid their ambush in the rooms above. Come swiftly, now!"

Softly as phantoms they descended the stair and came to the mouth of a corridor black as night. They crouched there for a moment, listening, and then melted into it. As they moved along, Valeria's flesh crawled between her shoulders in momentary expectation of a swordthrust in the dark. But for Conan's iron

W. T. — 5

RED NAILS

fingers gripping her arm she had no physical cognizance of her companions. Neither made as much noise as a cat would have made. The darkness was absolute. One hand, outstretched, touched a wall, and occasionally she felt a door under her fingers. The hallway seemed interminable.

Suddenly they were galvanized by a sound behind them. Valeria's flesh crawled anew, for she recognized it as the soft opening of a door. Men had come into the corridor behind them. Even with the thought she stumbled over something that felt like a human skull. It rolled across the floor with an appalling clatter.

"Run!" yelped TechotI, a note of hysteria in his voice, and was away down the corridor like a flying ghost.

Again Valeria felt Conan's hand bearing her up and sweeping her along as they raced after their guide. Conan could see in the dark no better than she, but he possessed a sort of instinct that made his course unerring. Without his support and guidance she would have fallen or stumbled against the wall. Down the corridor they sped, while the swift patter of flying feet drew closer and closer, and then suddenly TechotI panted: "Here is the stair! After me, quick! Oh, quick!''

His hand came out of the dark and caught Valeria's wrist as she stumbled blindly on the steps. She felt herself half dragged, half lifted up the winding stair, while Conan released her and turned on the steps, his ears and instincts telling him their foes were hard at their backs. And the sounds were not all those of human fee/.

Something came writhing up the steps, something that slithered and rustled and brought a chill in the air with it. Conan lashed down with his great sword and felt the blade shear through something that might have been flesh and W. T. — 6

bone, and cut deep into the stair beneath. Something touched his foot that chilled like the touch of frost, and then the darkness beneath him was disturbed by a frightful thrashing and lashing, and a man cried out in agony.

The next moment Conan was racing up the winding staircase, and through a door that stood open at the head.

Valeria and TechotI were already through, and TechotI slammed the door and shot a bolt across it — the first Conan had seen since they left the outer gate.

Then he turned and ran across the well-lighted chamber into which they had come, and as they passed through the farther door, Conan glanced back and saw the door groaning and straining under heavy pressure violently applied from the other side.

Though TechotI did not abate either his speed or his caution, he seemed more confident now. He had the air of a man who has come into familiar territory, within call of friends.

But Conan renewed his terror by asking: "What was that thing that I fought on the stair?"

"The men of Xotalanc," answered TechotI, without looking back. "I told you the halls were full of them."

"This wasn't a man," grunted Conan. "It was something that crawled, and it was as cold as ice to the touch. I think I cut it asunder. It fell back on the men who were following us, and must have killed one of them in its death throes."

TechotI' s head jerked back, his face ashy again. Convulsively he quickened his pace.

"It was the Crawler! A monster they have brought out of the catacombs to aid them! What it is, we do not know, but we have found our people hideously slain by it. In Set's name, hasten! If they put it on our trail, it will follow us to the very doors of Tecuhltli!"



"I doubt it" grunted Conan. 'That was a shrewd cut I dealt it on the stair."

"Hasten! Hasten!" groaned Techotl.

They ran through a series of green-lit chambers, traversed a broad hall, and halted before a giant bronze door.

Techotl said: "This is Tecuhltli!"

3. The People of the Feud

Techotl smote on the bronze door with his clenched hand, and then turned sidewise, so that he could watch back along the hall.

"Men have been smitten down before this door, when they thought they were safe," he said.

"Why don't they open the door?" asked Conan.

"They are looking at us through the Eye," answered Techotl. "They are puzzled at the sight of you." He lifted his voice and called: "Open the door, Xecelan! It is I, Techotl, with friends from the great world beyond the forest! — They will open," he assured his allies.

"They'd better do it in a hurry, then," said Conan grimly. "I hear something crawling along the floor beyond the hall."

Techotl went ashy again and attacked the door with his fists, screaming: "Open, you fools, open! The Crawler is at our heels!"

Even as he beat and shouted, the great bronze door swung noiselessly back, revealing a heavy chain across the entrance, over which spearheads bristled and fierce countenances regarded them intently for an instant. Then the chain was dropped and Techotl grasped the arms of his friends in a nervous frenzy and fairly dragged them over the threshold. A glance over his shoulder just as the door was closing showed Conan the long dim vista of the hall, and dimly framed at the other end an ophidian shape that writhed slowly and painfully into view,

flowing in a dull-hued length from a chamber door, its hideous blood-stained head wagging drunkenly. Then the closing door shut off the view.

Inside the square chamber into which they had come heavy bolts were drawn across the door, and the chain locked into place. The door was made to stand the battering of a siege. Four men stood on guard, of the same lank-haired, darkskinned breed as Techotl, with spears in their hands and swords at their hips. In the wall near the door there was a complicated contrivance of mirrors which Conan guessed was the Eye Techotl had mentioned, so arranged that a narrow, crystal-paned slot in the wall could be looked through from within without being discernible from without. The four guardsmen stared at the strangers with wonder, but asked no question, nor did Techotl vouchsafe any information. He moved with easy confidence now, as if he had shed his cloak of indecision and fear the instant he crossed the threshold.

"Come!" he urged his new-found friends, but Conan glanced toward the door.

"What about those fellows who were following us? Won't they try to storm that door?"

Techotl shook his head.

"They know they cannot break down the Door of the Eagle. They will flee back to Xotalanc, with their crawling fiend. Come! I will take you to the rulers of Tecuhltli."

Onb of the four guards opened the door opposite the one by which they had entered, and they passed through into a hallway which, like most of the rooms on that level, was lighted by both the slot-like skylights and the clusters of winking fire-gems. But unlike the other rooms they had traversed, this hall showed evidences of occupation. Velvet tapestries

RED NAILS


adorned the glossy jade walls, rich rugs were on the crimson floors, and the ivory seats, benches and divans were littered with satin cushions.

The hall ended in an ornate door, before which stood no guard. Without ceremony Techotl thrust the door open and ushered his friends into a broad chamber, where some thirty dark-skinned men and women lounging on satin-covered couches sprang up with exclamations of amazement.

The men, all except one, were of the same type as Techotl, and the women were equally dark and strange-eyed, though not unbeautiful in a weird dark way. They wore sandals, golden breastplates, and scanty silk skirts supported by gem-crusted girdles, and their black manes, cut square at their naked shoulders, were bound with silver circlets.

On a wide ivory seat on a jade dais sat a man and a woman who differed subtly from the others. He was a giant, with an enormous sweep of breast and the shoulders of a bull. Unlike the others, he was bearded, with a thick, blueblack beard which fell almost to his broad girdle. He wore a robe of purple silk which reflected changing sheens of color with his every movement, and one wide sleeve, drawn back to his elbow, revealed a forearm massive with corded muscles. The band which confined his blue-black locks was set with glittering jewels.

The woman beside him sprang to her feet with a startled exclamation as the strangers entered, and her eyes, passing over Conan, fixed themselves with burning intensity on Valeria. She was tall and lithe, by far the most beautiful woman in the room. She was clad more scantily even than the others; for instead of a skirt she wore merely a broad strip of giltworked purple cloth fastened to the middle of her girdle which fell below her knees. Another strip at the back of her

girdle completed that part of her costume, which she wore with a cynical indifference. Her breast-plates and the circlet about her temples were adorned with gems. In her eyes alone of all the darkskinned people there lurked no brooding gleam of madness. She spoke no word after her first exclamation; she stood tensely, her hands clenched, staring at Valeria.

The man on the ivory seat had not risen.

"Prince Olmec," spoke Techotl, bowing low, with arms outspread and the palms of his hands turned upward, "I bring allies from the world beyond the forest. In the Chamber of Tezcoti the Burning Skull slew Chicmec, my companion "

"The Burning Skull!" It was a shuddering whisper of fear from the people of Tecuhltli.

"Aye! Then came I, and found Chicmec lying with his throat cut. Before I could flee, the Burning Skull came upon me, and when I looked upon it my blood became as ice and the marrow of my bones melted. I could neither fight nor run. I could only await the stroke. Then came this white-skinned woman and struck him down with her sword; and lo, it was only a dog of Xotalanc with white paint upon his skin and the living skull of an ancient wizard upon his head! Now that skull lies in many pieces, and the dog who wore it is a dead man!"

An indescribably fierce exultation edged the last sentence, and was echoed in the low, savage exclamations from the crowding listeners.

"But wait!" exclaimed Techotl. "There is more! While I talked with the woman, four Xotalancs came upon us! One I slew — there is the stab in my thigh to prove how desperate was the fight. Two the woman killed. But we were hard pressed when this man came into the fray



and split the skull of the fourth! Aye! Five crimson nails there are to be driven into the pillar of vengeance!"

He pointed at a black column of ebony which stood behind the dais. Hundreds of red dots scarred its polished surface — the bright scarlet heads of heavy copper nails driven into the black wood.

"Five red nails for five Xotalanca lives!" exulted Techotl, and the horrible exultation in the faces of the listeners made them inliuman.

"Who are these people?" asked Olmec, and his voice was like the low, deep rumble of a distant bull. None of the people of Xuchotl spoke loudly. It was as if they had absorbed into their souls the silence of the empty halls and deserted chambers.

"I am Oman, a Cimmerian," answered the barbarian briefly. "This woman is Valeria of the Red Brotherhood, an Aquilonian pirate. We are deserters from an army on the Darfar border, far to the north, and are trying to reach the coast."

The woman on the dais spoke loudly, her words tripping in her haste.

"You can never reach the coast! There is no escape from Xuchotl! You will spend the rest of your lives in this city!"

"What do you mean?" growled Conan, clapping his hand to his hilt and stepping about so as to face both the dais and the rest of the room. "Are you telling us we're prisoners?"

"She did not mean that," interposed Olmec. "We are your friends. We would not restrain you against your will. But I fear other circumstances will make it impossible for you to leave Xuchotl."

His eyes flickered to Valeria, and he lowered them quickly.

"This woman is Tascela," he said. "She is a princess of Tecuhltli. But let food and drink be brought our guests. Doubtless they are hungry, and weary from their long travels."

He indicated an ivory table, and after

an exchange of glances, the adventurers seated themselves. The Cimmerian was suspicious. His fierce blue eyes roved about the chamber, and he kept his sword close to his hand. But an invitation to eat and drink never found him backward. His eyes kept wandering to Tascela, but the princess had eyes only for his whiteskinned companion.

Techotl, who had bound a strip of silk about his wounded thigh, placed himself at the table to attend to the wants of his friends, seeming to consider it a privilege and honor to see after their needs. He inspected the food and drink the others brought in gold vessels and dishes, and tasted each before he placed it before his guests. While they ate, Olmec sat in silence on his ivory seat, watching them from under his broad black brows. Tascela sat beside him, chin cupped in her hands and her elbows resting on her knees. Her dark, enigmatic eyes, burning with a mysterious light, never left Valeria's supple figure. Behind her seat a sullen handsome girl waved an ostrichplume fan with a slow rhythm.

The food was fruit of an exotic kind unfamiliar to the wanderers, but very palatable, and the drink was a light crimson wine that carried a heady tang.

"You have come from afar," said Olmec at last. "I have read the. books of our fathers. Aquilonia lies beyond the lands of the Stygians and the Shemites, beyond Argos and Zingara; and Cimmeria lies beyond Aquilonia."

"We have each a roving foot," answered Conan carelessly.

"How you won through the forest is a wonder to me," quoth Olmec. "In bygone days a thousand fighting-men scarcely were able to carve a road through its perils."

"We encountered a bench- legged monstrosity about the size of a mastodon,"

RED NAILS


said Coaan casually, holding out his wine goblet which Techotl filled with evident pleasure. "But when we'd killed it we had no further trouble."

The wine vessel slipped from Techotl's hand to crash on the floor. His dusky skin went ashy. Olmec started to his feet, an image of stunned amazement, and a low gasp of awe or terror breathed up from the others. Some slipped to their knees as if their legs would not support them. Only Tascela seemed not to have heard. Conan glared about him bewilderedly.

"What's the matter? What are you gaping about?"

"You — you slew the dragon-god?"

"God? I killed a dragon. Why not? It was trying to gobble us up."

"But dragons are immortal!" exclaimed Olmec. "They slay each other, but no man ever killed a dragon! The thousand fighting-men of our ancestors who fought their way to Xuchotl could not prevail against them! Their swords broke like twigs against their scales!"

"If your ancestors had thought to dip their spears in the poisonous juice of Derketa's Apples," quoth Conan, with his mouth full, "and jab them in the eyes or mouth or somewhere like that, they'd have seen that dragons are not more immortal than any other chunk of beef. The carcass lies at the edge of the trees, just within the forest. If you don't believe me, go and look for yourself."

Olmec shook his head, not in disbelief but in wonder.

"It was because of the dragons that our ancestors took refuge in Xuchotl," said he. "They dared not pass through the plain and plunge into the forest beyond. Scores of them were seized and devoured by the monsters before they could reach the city."

"Then your ancestors didn't build Xuchotl?" asked Valeria.

"It was ancient when they first came into the land. How long it had stood here,

not even its degenerate inhabitants knew."

"Your people came from Lake Zuad?" questioned Conan.

"Aye. More than half a century ago a tribe of the Tlazitlans rebelled against the Stygian king, and, being defeated in battle, fled southward. For many weeks they wandered over grasslands, desert and hills, and at last they came into the great forest, a thousand fighting-men with their women and children.

"It was in the forest that the dragons fell upon them, and tore many to pieces; so the people fled in a frenzy of fear before them, and at last came into the plain and saw the city of Xuchotl in the midst of it.

"They camped before the city, not daring to leave the plain, for the night was made hideous with the noise of the battling monsters throughout the forest. They made war incessantly upon one another. Yet they came not into the plain.

"The people of the city shut their gates and shot arrows at our people from the walls. The Tlazitlans were imprisoned on the plain, as if the ring of die forest had been a great wall; for to venture into the woods would have been madness.

"That night there came secretly to their camp a slave from the city, one of their own blood, who with a band of exploring soldiers had wandered into the forest long before, when he was a young man. The dragons had devoured all his companions, but he had been taken into the city to dwell in servitude. His name was Tolkemec." A flame lighted the dark eyes at mention of the name, and some of the people muttered obscenely and spat. "He promised to open the gates to the warriors. He asked only that all captives taken be delivered into his hands.

"At dawn he opened the gates. The warriors swarmed in and the halls of Xuchotl ran red. Only a few hundred folk dwelt there, decaying remnants of a once



great race. Tolkemec said they came from the east, long ago, from Old Kosala, when the ancestors of those who now dwell in Kosala came up from the south and drove forth the original inhabitants of the land. They wandered far westward and finally found this forest-girdled plain, inhabited then by a tribe of black people.

"These they enslaved and set to building a city. From the hills to the east they brought jade and marble and lapis lazuli, and gold, silver and copper. Herds of elephants provided them with ivory. When their city was completed, they slew all die black slaves. And their magicians made a terrible magic to guard the city; for by their necromantic arts they re-created the dragons which had once dwelt in this lost land, and whose monstrous bones they found in the forest. Those bones they clothed in flesh and life, and the living beasts walked the earth as they walked it when Time was young. But the wizards wove a spell that kept them in the forest and they came not into the plain.

'* £J o for many centuries the people of *3 Xuchotl dwelt in their city, cultivating the fertile plain, until their wise men learned how to grow fruit within the city — fruit which is not planted in soil, but obtains its nourishment out of the air — and then they let the irrigation ditches run dry, and dwelt more and more in luxurious sloth, until decay seized them. They were a dying race when our ancestors broke through the forest and came into the plain. Their wizards had died, and the people had forgot their ancient necromancy. They could fight neither by sorcery nor the sword.

"Well, our fathers slew the people of Xuchotl, all except a hundred which were given living into the hands of Tolkemec, who had been their slave; and for many days and nights the halls re-echoed to their screams under the agony of his tortures.

"So the Tlazitlans dwelt here, for a while in peace, ruled by the brothers Tecuhltli and Xotalanc, and by Tolkemec. Tolkemec took a girl of the tribe to wife, . and because he had opened the gates, and because he knew many of the arts of the Xuchotlans, he shared the rule of the tribe with the brothers who had led the rebellion and the flight.

"For a few years, then, they dwelt at peace within the city, doing little but eating, drinking and making love, and raising children. There was no necessity to till the plain, for Tolkemec taught them how to cultivate the air-devouring fruits. Besides, the slaying of the Xuchotlans broke the spell that held the dragons in the forest, and they came nightly and bellowed about the gates of the city. The plain ran red with the blood of their eternal warfare, and it was then that " He bit

his tongue in the midst of the sentence, then presently continued, but Valeria and Conan felt that he had checked an admission he had considered unwise.

"Five years they dwelt in peace. Then" — Olmec's eyes rested briefly on the silent woman at his side — "Xotalanc took a woman to wife, a woman whom both Tecuhltli and old Tolkemec desired. In his madness, Tecuhltli stole her from her husband. Aye, she went willingly enough. Tolkemec, to spite Xotalanc, aided Tecuhltli. Xotalanc demanded that she be given back to him, and the council of the tribe decided that the matter should be left to the woman. She chose to remain with Tecuhltli. In wrath Xotalanc sought to take her back by force, and the retainers of the brothers came to blows in the Great Hall.

"There was much bitterness. Blood was shed on both sides. The quarrel became a feud, the feud an open war. From the welter three factions emerged — Tecuhltli, Xotalanc, and Tolkemec. Already, in the days of peace, they had divided the

RED NAILS


city between them. Tecuhltli dwelt in the western quarter of the city, Xotalanc in the eastern, and Tolkemec with his family by the southern gate.

"Anger and resentment and jealousy blossomed into bloodshed and rape and murder. Once the sword was drawn there was no turning back; for blood called for blood, and vengeance followed swift on the heels of atrocity. Tecuhltli fought with Xotalanc, and Tolkemec aided first one and then the other, betraying each faction as it fitted his purposes. Tecuhltli and his people withdrew into the quarter of the western gate, where we now sit. Xuchotl is built in the shape of an oval. Tecuhltli, which took its name from its prince, occupies the western end of the oval. The people blocked up all doors connecting the quarter with the rest of the city, except one on each floor, which could be defended easily. They went into the pits below the city and built a wall cutting off the western end of the catacombs, where lie the bodies of the ancient Xuchotlans, and of those Tiazitlans slain in the feud. They dwelt as in a besieged castle, making sorties and forays on their enemies.

"The people of Xotalanc likewise fortified the eastern quarter of the city, and Tolkemec did likewise with the quarter by the southern gate. The central part of the city was left bare and uninhabited. Those empty halls and chambers became a battleground, and a region of brooding terror.

"Tolkemec warred on both clans. He was a fiend in the form of a human, worse than Xotalanc. He knew many secrets of the city he never told the others. From the crypts of the catacombs lie plundered the dead of their grisly secrets — secrets of ancient kings and wizards, long forgotten by the degenerate Xuchotlans our ancestors slew. But all his magic did not aid him the night we of Tecuhltli stormed his

castle and butchered all his people. Tolkemec we tortured for many days."

His voice sank to a caressing slur, and a far-away look grew in his eyes, as if he looked back over the years to a scene which caused him intense pleasure.

"Aye, we kept the life in him until he screamed for death as for a bride. At last we took him living from the torture chamber and cast him into a dungeon for the rats to gnaw as he died. From that dungeon, somehow, he managed to escape, and dragged himself into the catacombs. There without doubt he died, for the only way out of the catacombs beneath Tecuhltli is through Tecuhltli, and he never emerged by that way. His bones were never found, and the superstitious among our people swear that his ghost haunts the crypts to this day, wailing among the bones of the dead. Twelve years ago we butchered the people of Tolkemec, but the feud raged on between Tecuhltli and Xotalanc as it will rage until the last man, the last woman is dead.

"It was fifty years ago that Tecuhltli stole the wife of Xotalanc. Half a century the feud has endured. I was born in it. All in this chamber, except Tascela, were born in it. We expect to die in it.

"We are a dying race, even as those Xuchotlans our ancestors slew. When the feud began there were hundreds in each faction. Now we of Tecuhltli number only these you see before you, and the men who guard the four doors: forty in all. How many Xotalancas there are we do not know, but I doubt if they are much more numerous than we. For fifteen years no children have been born to us, and we have seen none among the Xotalancas.

"We are dying, but before we die we will slay as many of the men of Xotalanc as the gods permit."

And with his weird eyes blazing, Olmec spoke long of that grisly feud, fought out in silent chambers and dim halls un216


der the blaze of the green fire-jewels, on floors smoldering with the flames of hell and splashed with deeper crimson from severed veins. In that long butchery a whole generation had perished. Xotalanc was dead, long ago, slain in a grim battle on an ivory stair. Tecuhltli was dead, flayed alive by the maddened Xotalancas who had captured him.

Without emotion Olmec told of hideous battles fought in black corridors, of ambushes on twisting stairs, and red butcheries. With a redder, more abysmal gleam in his deep dark eyes he told of men and women flayed alive, mutilated and dismembered, of captives howling under tortures so ghastly that even the barbarous Gmmerian grunted. No wonder Techotl had trembled with the terror of capture. Yet he had gone forth to slay if he could, driven by hate that was stronger than his fear. Olmec spoke further, of dark and mysterious matters, of black magic and wizardry conjured out of the black night of the catacombs, of weird creatures invoked out of darkness for horrible allies. In these things the Xotalancas had the advantage, for it was in the eastern catacombs where lay the bones of the greatest wizards of the ancient Xuchotlans, with their immemorial secrets.

Valeria listened with morbid fascination. The feud had become a terrible elemental power driving the people of Xuchotl inexorably on to doom and extinction. It filled their whole lives. They were born in it, and they expected to die in it. They never left their barricaded castle except to steal forth into the Halls of Silence that lay between the opposing fortresses, to slay and be slain. Sometimes the raiders returned with frantic captives, or with grim tokens of victory in fight. Sometimes they did not return at all, or returned only as severed limbs cast down before the bolted bronze doors. It was a

ghastly, unreal nightmare existence these people lived, shut off from the rest of the world, caught together like rabid rats in the same trap, butchering one another through the years, crouching and creeping through the sunless corridors to maim and torture and murder.

While Olmec talked, Valeria felt the blazing eyes of Tascela fixed upon her. The princess seemed not to hear what Olmec was saying. Her expression, as he narrated victories or defeats, did not mirror the wild rage or fiendish exultation that alternated on the faces of the other Tecuhltli. The feud that was an obsession to her clansmen seemed meaningless to her. Valeria found her indifferent callousness more repugnant than Olmec's naked ferocity.

"And we can never leave the city," said Olmec. "For fifty years no one has left

it except those " Again he checked

himself.

"Even without the peril of the dragons," he continued, "we who were bom and raised in the city would not dare leave it. We have never set foot outside the walls. We are not accustomed to the open sky and the naked sun. No; we were born in Xuchotl, and in Xuchotl we shall die."

"Well," said Conan, "with your leave we'll take our chances with the dragons. This feud is none of our business. If you'll show us to the west gate we'll be on our way."

Tascela's hands clenched, and she started to speak, but Olmec interrupted her: "It is nearly nightfall. If you wander forth into the plain by night, you will certainly fall prey to the dragons."

"We crossed it last night, and slept in the open without seeing any," returned Conan.

Tascela smiled mirthlessly. "You dare not leave Xuchotl!"

Conan glared at her with instinctive anRED NAILS


tagonism; she was not looking at him, but at the woman opposite him.

"I think they dare," restarted Olmec. "But look you, Conan and Valeria, the gods must have sent you to us, to cast victory into the laps of the Tecuhltli! You are professional fighters — why not fight for us? We have wealth in abundance — precious jewels are as common in Xuchotl as cobblestones are in the cities of the world. Some the Xuchotlans brought with them from Kosala. Some, like the firestones, they found in the hills to the east. Aid us to wipe out the Xotalancas, and we will give you all the jewels you can carry."

"And will you help us destroy the dragons?" asked Valeria. "With bows and poisoned arrows thirty men could slay all the dragons in the forest."

"Aye!" replied Olmec promptly. "We have forgotten the use of the bow, in years of hand-to-hand fighting, but we can learn again."

"What do you say?" Valeria inquired of Conan.

"We're both penniless vagabonds," he grinned hardily. "I'd as soon kill Xotalancas as anybody."

"Then you agree?" exclaimed Olmec, while Techotl fairly hugged himself with delight.

"Aye. And now suppose you show us chambers where we can sleep, so we can be fresh tomorrow for the beginning of the slaying."

Olmec nodded, and waved a hand, and Techotl and a woman led the adventurers into a corridor which led through a door off to the left of the jade dais. A glance back showed Valeria Olmec sitting on his throne, chin on knotted fist, staring after them. His eyes burned with a weird flame. Tascela leaned back in her seat, whispering to the sullen- faced maid, Yasala, who leaned over her shoulder, her ear to the princess' moving lips.

The hallway was not so broad as most they had traversed, but it was long. Presently the woman halted, opened a door, and drew aside for Valeria to enter.

"Wait a minute," growled Conan. "Where do I sleep?"

Techotl pointed to a chamber across the hallway, but one door farther down. Conan hesitated, and seemed inclined to raise an objection, but Valeria smiled spitefully at him and shut the door in his face. He muttered something uncomplimentary about women in general, and strode off down the corridor after Techotl.

In the ornate chamber where he was to sleep, he glanced up at the slot-like skylights. Some were wide enough to admit the body of a slender man, supposing the glass were broken.

"Why don't the Xotalancas come over the roofs and shatter those skylights?" he asked.

"They cannot be broken," answered Techotl. "Besides, the roofs would be hard to clamber over. They are mostly spires and domes and steep ridges."

He volunteered more information about the "castle" of Tecuhltli. Like the rest of the city it contained four stories, or tiers of chambers, with towers jutting up from the roof. Each tier was named; indeed, the people of Xuchotl had a name for each chamber, hall and stair in the city, as people of more normal cities designate streets and quarters. In Tecuhltli the floors were named The Eagle's Tier, The Ape's Tier, The Tiger's Tier and The Serpent's Tier, in the order as enumerated, The Eagle's Tier being the highest, or fourth, floor.

"Who is Tascela?" asked Conan. "Olmec's wife?"

Techotl shuddered and glanced furtively about him before answering.

"No. She is — Tascela! She was the wife of Xotalanc — the woman Tecuhltli stole, to start the feud."



"What are you talking about?" demanded Con an. "That woman is beautiful and young. Are you trying to tell me that she was a wife fifty years ago?"

"Aye! I swear it! She was a full-grown woman when the Tlazitlans journeyed from Lake Zuad. It was because the king of Stygia desired her for a concubine that Xotalanc and his brother rebelled and fled into the wilderness. She is a witch, who possesses the secret of perpetual youth."

"What's that?" asked Conan.

Techotl shuddered again.

"Ask me not! I dare not speak. It is too grisly, even for Xuchotl!"

And touching his finger to his lips, he glided from the chamber.

4. Scent of Black Lotus

Valeria unbuckled her sword-belt and laid it with the sheathed weapon on the couch where she meant to sleep. She noted that the doors were supplied with bolts, and asked where they led.

"Those lead into adjoining chambers," answered the woman, indicating the doors on right and left. "That one" — pointing to a copper-bound door opposite that which opened into the corridor — "leads to a corridor which runs to a stair that descends into the catacombs. Do not fear; naught can harm you here."

"Who spoke of fear?" snapped Valeria. "I just like to know what sort of harbor I'm dropping anchor in. No, I don't want you to sleep at the foot of my couch. I'm not accustomed to being waited on — not by women, anyway. You have my leave to go."

Alone in the room, the pirate shot the bolts on all the doors, kicked off her boots and stretched luxuriously out on the couch. She imagined Conan similarly situated across the corridor, but her feminine vanity prompted her to visualize him as

scowling and muttering with chagrin as he cast himself on his solitary couch, and she grinned with gleeful malice as she prepared herself for slumber.

Outside, night had fallen. In the halls of Xuchotl the green fire- jewels blazed like the eyes of prehistoric cats. Somewhere among the dark towers a night wind moaned like a restless spirit. Through the dim passages stealthy figures began stealing, like disembodied shadows.

Valeria awoke suddenly on her couch. In the dusky emerald glow of the firegems she saw a shadowy figure bending over her. For a bemused instant the apparition seemed part of the dream she had been dreaming. She had seemed to lie on the couch in the chamber as she was actually lying, while over her pulsed and throbbed a gigantic black blossom so enormous that it hid the ceiling. Its exotic perfume pervaded her being, inducing a delicious, sensuous languor that was something more and less than sleep. She was sinking into scented billows of insensible bliss, when something touched her face. So supersensitive were her drugged senses, that the light touch was like a dislocating impact, jolting her rudely into full wakefulness. Then it was that she saw, not a gargantuan blossom, but a dark-skinned woman standing above her.

With the realization came anger and instant action. The woman turned lithely, but before she could run Valeria was on her feet and had caught her arm. She fought like a wildcat for an instant, and then subsided as she felt herself crushed by the superior strength of her captor. The pirate wrenched the woman around to face her, caught her chin with her free hand and forced her captive to meet her gaze. It was the sullen Yasala, Tascela's maid.

"What the devil were you doing bending over me? What's that in your hand?" The woman made no reply, but sought

to cast away the object. Valeria twisted her arm around in front of her, and the thing fell to the floor — a great black exotic blossom on a jade-green stem, large as a woman's head, to be sure, but tiny beside the exaggerated vision she had seen.

"The black lotus!" said Valeria between her teeth. "The blossom whose scent brings deep sleep. You were trying to drug me! If you hadn't accidentally touched my face with the petals, you'd have — why did you do it? What's your game?"

Yasala maintained a sulky silence, and with an oath Valeria whirled her around, forced her to her knees and twisted her arm up behind her back.

"Tell me, or I'll tear your arm out of its socket!"

Yasala squirmed in anguish as her arm was forced excruciatingly up between her shoulder-blades, but a violent shaking of her head was the only answer she made.

"Slut!" Valeria cast her from her to sprawl on the floor. The pirate glared at the prostrate figure with blazing eyes. Fear and the memory of Tascela's burning eyes stirred in her, rousing all her tigerish instincts of self-preservation. These people were decadent; any sort of perversity might be expected to be encountered among them. But Valeria sensed here something that moved behind the scenes, some secret terror fouler than common degeneracy. Fear and revulsion of this weird city swept her. These people were neither sane nor normal; she began to doubt if they were even human. Madness smoldered in the eyes of them all — all except the cruel, cryptic eyes of Tascela, which held secrets and mysteries more abysmal than madness.

She lifted her head and listened intently. The halls of Xuchotl were as silent as if it were in reality a dead city. The green jewels bathed the chamber in

a nightmare glow, in which the eyes of the woman on the floor glittered eerily up at her. A thrill of panic throbbed through Valeria, driving the last vestige of mercy from her fierce soul.

"Why did you try to drug me?" she muttered, grasping the woman's black hair, and forcing her head back to glare into her sullen, long-lashed eyes. "Did Tascela send you?"

No answer. Valeria cursed venomously and slapped the woman first on one cheek and then the other. The blows resounded through the room, but Yasala made no outcry.

"Why don't you scream?" demanded Valeria savagely. "Do you fear someone will hear you? Whom do you fear? Tascela? Olmec? Conan?"

Yasala made no reply. She crouched, watching her captor with eyes baleful as those of a basilisk. Stubborn silence always fans anger. Valeria turned and tore a handful of cords from a nearby hanging.

"You sulky slut!" she said between her teeth. "I'm going to strip you stark naked and tie you across that couch and whip you until you tell me what you were doing here, and who sent you!"

Yasala made no verbal protest, nor did she offer any resistance, as Valeria carried out the first part of her threat with a fury that her captive's obstinacy only sharpened. Then for a space there was no sound in the chamber except the whistle and crackle of hard-woven silken cords on naked flesh. Yasala could not move her fast-bound hands or feet. Her body writhed and quivered under the chastisement, her head swayed from side to side in rhythm with the blows. Her teeth were sunk into her lower lip and a trickle of blood began as the punishment continued. But she did not cry out.

B20


The pliant cords made no great sound as they encountered the quivering body of the captive; only a sharp crackling snap, but each cord left a red streak across Yasala's dark flesh. Valeria inflicted the punishment with all the strength of her war-hardened arm, with all the mercilessness acquired during a life where pain and torment were daily happenings, and with all the cynical ingenuity which only a woman displays toward a woman. Yasala suffered more, physically and mentally, than she would have suffered under a lash wielded by a man, however strong.

It was the application of this feminine cynicism which at last tamed Yasala.

A low whimper escaped from her lips, and Valeria paused, arm lifted, and raked back a damp yellow lock. "Well, are you going to talk?" she demanded. "I can keep this up all night, if necessary!"

"Mercy!" whispered the woman. "I will tell."

Valeria cut the cords from her wrists and ankles, and pulled her to her feet. Yasala sank down on the couch, half reclining on one bare hip, supporting herself on her arm, and writhing at the contact of her smarting flesh with the couch. She was trembling in every limb.

"Wine!" she begged, dry-lipped, indicating with a quivering hand a gold vessel on an ivory table. "Let me drink. I am weak with pain. Then I will tell you all."

Valeria picked up the vessel, and Yasala rose unsteadily to receive it. She took it, raised it toward her lips — then dashed the contents full into the Aqui Ionian's face. Valeria reeled backward, shaking and clawing the stinging liquid out of her eyes. Through a smarting mist she saw Yasala dart across the room, fling back a bolt, throw open the copperbound door and run down the hall. The

pirate was after her instantly, sword out and murder in her heart.

But Yasala had the start, and she ran with the nervous agility of a woman who has just been whipped to the point of hysterical frenzy. She rounded a corner in the corridor, yards ahead of Valeria, and when the pirate turned it, she saw only an empty hall, and at the other end a door that gaped blackly. A damp moldy scent reeked up from it, and Valeria shivered. That must be the door that led to the catacombs. Yasala had taken refuge among the dead.

Valeria advanced to the door and looked down a flight of stone steps that vanished quickly into utter blackness. Evidently it was a shaft that led straight to the pits below the city, without opening upon any of the lower floors. She shivered slightly at the thought of the thousands of corpses lying in their stone crypts down there, wrapped in their moldering cloths. She had no intention of groping her way down those stone steps. Yasala doubtless knew every turn and twist of the subterranean tunnels.

She was turning back, baffled and furious, when a sobbing cry welled up from the blackness. It seemed to come from a great depth, but human words were faintly distinguishable, and the voice was that of a woman. "Oh, help! Help, in Set's name! Ahhh!" It trailed away, and Valeria thought she caught the echo of a ghostly tittering.

Valeria felt her skin crawl. What had happened to Yasala down there in the thick blackness? There was no doubt that it had been she who had cried out. But what peril could have befallen her? Was a Xotalanca lurking down there? Olmec had assured them that the catacombs below Tecuhltli were walled off from the rest, too securely for their enemies to break through. Besides, that tittering had not sounded like a human being at all.

RED NAILS

22L

Valeria hurried back down the corridor, not stopping to close the door that opened on the stair. Regaining her chamber, she dosed the door and shot the bolt behind her. She pulled on her boots and buckled her sword-belt about her. She was determined to make her way to Conan's room and urge him, if he still lived,

to join her in an attempt to fight their way out of that city of devils.

But even as she reached the door that opened into the corridor, a long-drawn scream of agony rang through the halls, followed by the stamp of running feet and the loud clangor of swords.

You will not wut to miss the thrilling chapters that bring this weird story to a doae in next month's WLIRO TALES. Reserve your copy at your magazine dealer's now.

(2/wamp Demons

By C. A. BUTZ

The lights that wink across the sodden moor Like phosphorescent eyes that beckon men To risk fell footsteps in the treacherous fen,

And sink in loathsome muck, without a spoor —

What ghosts of former days, what dread allure. Abides within this subterranean den? Or, reaching out, snares victims to its ken,

With wraith-like fingers, to a peril sure?

*Tis told that evil things lurk out of sight

With human bones that fester in the ooze;

Belike 'tis true, these bones that once were dothed In fleshly form now harbor deadly spite


[THE END]

============================================================
DEATH HOLDS THE POST . . . .
by August W. Derleth and Mark Schorer
============================================================
Against the living, and this swamp still brews Within its bubbling depths die curse men loathed

Before they turned to leprous Things of Night!

eath Holds the Post

By AUGUST W. DERLETH and MARK SCHORER

r A strange tale of living dead men and an unearthly horror that struck at dead soldiers in an African fort and brought them back to a gruesome resurrection

URGENT GOVERNMENT OF FRANCE ACTING ON ADVICE FROM GERMANY ASKS ALL COMMANDERS OF ALGERIAN POSTS TO WATCH FOR AND ARREST GERMAN SCIENTIST DR OTTO PRETTWEG WHO ESCAPED FROM SANITARIUM WITH IMPORTANT DOCUMENTS STOP BELIEVED HEADING FOR ALGERIA SINCE ALL OTHER AVENUES OF ESCAPE STOPPED SEEN ON FRENCH COAST STOP ARREST THIS MAN IMMEDIATELY STOP DESCRIBED AS TALL THIN MAN SUNKEN CHEEKS LIVID SCAR ON LEFT CHEEK BLACK EYES GRAY HAIR URGENT RELAY

EDDIE CRANSTON reread the dispatch he had just decoded and handed it to his companion in the stuffy room. "They would spring that on us just when we're in a hole about Mechar," he said in irritation.

His companion read the message, grunted perfunctorily, and handed it back without comment. Cranston went out into the deserted quadrangle where buildings and ground alike baked in the midafternoon sun. He was unpleasantly aware of the heavy, hot lifelessness of the place. On the wall two guards were limned against the parched blue of the African sky; in the shade of a barracks doorway a native slept; there was no other sign of life. Half a hundred men had marched from Surdez to the post at Mechar two days before. The other half were finding relief from the heat in sleep.

Cranston went into the largest of the several buildings within the white walls


of Surdez. Lieutenant Prageur, a big man with a troubled frown on his forehead, slept on his narrow untidy cot, snoring lightly, his boots on the floor, his blouse and shirt flung over the back of a chair. Cranston touched his superior's shoulder.

"Lieutenant," he said softly.

The officer awoke with a start, swinging his bare feet to the floor. "What d'you want? Anything happen?"

"Special dispatch, sir."

Prageur took the message and read it. He shrugged irritably. "We won't have to worry much about that. Even a lunatic wouldn't hide in a god-forsaken hole like this. Now, what about Mechar? Still no contact?"

"Nothing, sir."

"Damned queer business. Those fellows should have been there a long while ago."

"Any orders, sir?"

"Stick at the wire. We can't do anything else."

Cranston left the building, thinking about Mechar. The trouble had started when news came from Mechar that a queer band of unidentfied men — marauders, gipsies, Tuaregs, no one knew exactly — were occupying an old and deserted post near Mechar, the last outpost. Before Lieutenant D'Oblier at Mechar could send out an investigating party, the post had been surprized by a formidable army of men and, after a futile battle on the part of the Legionnaires, had been taken. Dispatches to Surdez had ceased in the

DEATH HOLDS THE POST

"His voice was slow and gentle, almost crooning."


middle of the sentence announcing Medlar's fall.

Orders had come from headquarters to dispatch fifty men to Mechar at once, and at the same time came the news that more men were being sent to Surdez from adjoining posts. Two days had passed since then, but no word had reached Surdez from Mechar, nor had any intelligence of the fifty men reached the post. Lieutenant Prageur and the remainder of the garrison had come to believe that D'Oblier had been deceived as to the number of men at the deserted post, for only a great number could have destroyed

the garrison at Mechar, which, being the last outpost, had many more men than Surdez.

Cranston waited futilely at the telegraph, occasionally tapping out the code call for Mediar. Silence was his only answer. He slid down in his diair and dozed.

Half an hour later Cranston was shaken out of his sleep by the rougfr voice of a guard.

"Gasparri's come back," he said. Cranston was instantly awake. Gasparri was one of the fifty dispatched Mi



Mechar two days ago. "Gasparri!" he echoed. "Who else?"

"He's alone. Stumbling across the desert as if he were wounded. I saw him from a distance. He dropped from exhaustion just beyond the gates."

Gasparri lay at the door, stretched on the ground where the guard had put him. Cranston bent over the body. Gasparri's face was black with grime and sweat, his lips were cracked, and white with caked dust. His chest lifted and fell in heavy, disturbed breathing.

"Get him to bed. No, wait — I'll get him in. You go for Lieutenant Prageur."

Cranston carried the unconscious man into the building, where he lowered him carefully to a cot. He sought and found some brandy, which he forced through Gasparri's parched lips. In a few moments the exhausted man's breathing eased up. Cranston was waching Gasparri's face when Prageur entered.

The lieutenant went over to the cot and looked down. He said nothing, but apprehension for the forty-nine men who had not returned was plainly written on his features. The Italian moved restlessly; he was coming around. Cranston and Prageur waited. Presently Gasparri opened his eyes. Immediately Cranston was at his side with a glass of water.

"Not too much, now," he said.

Gasparri gulped a few swallows with painful effort and sank back on the cot. His blood-shot eyes stared vacantly at the ceiling. His lips moved soundlessly. But in a moment blood flushed in his cheeks, crept back into his gray lips.

"Gasparri!" said Lieutenant Prageur.

Gasparri looked vacantly at him and said, "Not to Mechar!" That was all.

Prageur bent forward. "Where aire the others, Gasparri?"

For a long moment Gasparri's face remained expressionless; then a look of unutterable horror crept over his features. His blood-shot eyes opened wide, his lips fell apart, his hands fumbled at his neck as if he were stifling. "Dio!" he gasped; "one of them — one had me by the neck!" Then he began to mutter incoherently.

Prageur held back his impatience.

It did not take Gasparri long to pull himself together. After his muttering subsided, he lay for almost a half-hour fully conscious, and at length pulled himself up into a sitting position and began to talk.

He told of the arrival of the fifty at Mechar. They had come to the post in eleven hours, for it was not a great distance from Surdez, and had found it apparently deserted. Yet the gates were locked on the inside. . . .

"We broke in after a while and waited for something to happen. Nothing did. Inside, everything was quiet and deserted. Then we went in. As soon as we were well inside, the firing began, from all sides, from doors and windows and roofs where they had been concealed. We answered their fire — but we didn't have a chance against an army like that!"

Gasparri shuddered, horror in his eyes.

"That army," he repeated. "Dio! it was no army. We shot, we struck home — but not one of them fell." His voice rose abruptly. "They were dead already! Some of them were skeletons, half-rotten corpses, and — Dio! — some were the men from Mechar — dead men, fighting!"

He fell back.

Prageur made a gesture of annoyance. "Sun's got him," he said irritably. "And he sounded all right."

He bent over the Italian, who was crouching back against the bed, covering his eyes with his hands, shuddering violently. "Look here, Gasparri!" he commanded sharply. "Forget that. We sent fifty good men to Mechar. They haven't

W. T. — 6

DEATH HOLDS THE POST


come back, and we haven't had a word from them! What happened to them? You must know. Tell me!"

Gasparri raised his head, dropping his hands listlessly. Then he said, "I have told you, sir. They're dead. They were killed by those dead things at Mechar. I alone escaped." His voice was heavy and portentous with a calm, deadly hopelessness.

"You're delirious!" snapped Prageur. He sat down on the cot and grasped Gasparri's wrists roughly in a tight grip.

Gasparri made no protest; he only looked at the lieutenant out of frighthaunted eyes.

"Tell .me!" Prageur ordered again, but his voice was less sure.

Gasparri repeated, "I have told you, sir. They were killed by dead men, and one who was not dead — a tall, thin old man, who directed their movements from the safety of the watdi-tower, and he was like a ghost. But all the others are dead, I tell you, dead — and yet they moved, those dead ones."

"What happened to our men, Gasparri?"

"They're dead in Mechar." Then abruptly Gasparri's eyes flamed with a ghastly fear. ''Or perhaps they, too, are alive like those others."

Prageur turned away, shrugging. Cranston followed him to the door. "He's obviously mad, sir, but that doesn't explain his presence. Why is he here? He came alone on foot across the sand."

Lieutenant Prageur looked at him. "Sang de Die//.'" he exploded. "You don't put any faith in that tale, do you, Cranston?"

"No, sir," replied Cranston promptly. "But I don't understand his condition. He got a shock somewhere, because W. T. — 7

there's something more than imagination behind that story he's telling."

The whimpering voice of the Italian drifted out to them. "My neck," Gasparri complained, "bones around my neck — rotted flesh — ahhrr. . . ."

Prageur jerked his head in the direction of the cot. "Look after him, and keep on trying to get Mechar," he said. Then he turned on his heel and walked out into the blazing quadrangle.

Cranston saluted smartly and went back into the building.

Gasparri's removal to his own quarters was but a matter of a few moments, and Cranston was soon attempting to contact Mechar, though he felt intuitively that this was hopeless. He had not been long at it when he was brought to his feet by a startled shout from the quadrangle. He ran quickly to the door, where he was assailed by a babble of voices and sight of a second guard running toward the lieutenant's quarters.

Someone saw Cranston and shouted, "Another coming across the sand wearing the uniform. From Mechar."

"How far out?"

"About a mile."

Lieutenant Prageur, who had heard, was already striding toward the walls. Cranston followed.

From the small turret surmounting the southwest corner of the walls, Prageur scanned the desert through his binoculars. Cranston, looking out, saw for a few moments nothing but a gleaming expanse of sand topped by undulating silver waves of heat, rising and falling into an endless sky, blue as the sea. Then his eyes focussed properly and he saw the oncoming man — a small figure, moving slowly but steadily across the golden expanse of sand.

"I don't recognize him," said the lieu226


tenant doubtfully. "Can't make out his face for his kipi. But he's one of our men. Take a look."

As Cranston took the glasses, Prageur stepped out along the wall and shouted down. "Ourlet, ride out to meet him."

The glasses brought the man on the sand much closer. It was a white man in a private's uniform. But what instantly caught Cranston's eye was the ease with which the soldier was moving. He was coming in a straight line across the sands, heading obviously for the Surdez gates, never hesitating, never stumbling as a man in exhaustion might, just coming along at a steady though slow and mechanically awkward gait.

"Spot that walk?" asked Lieutenant Prageur.

Cranston nodded. "Funny, sir."

Prageur stood looking out across the sand, his hands moving nervously. "I don't like it," he said suddenly. "But he seems to be one of our men."

Thb two of them descended the stairs to the quadrangle. The gates had been thrown open, and Ourlet had ridden out to meet the oncoming Legionnaire. Cranston had the fleeting hope that from this one, at least, they might learn something.

Then abruptly a shot broke the tense stillness. It came from beyond the post, from the sand, from the weapon which had appeared in one hand of the advancing Legionnaire. And the shot had been fired at Ourlet!

It had happened in the space of a few seconds — the walking man suddenly producing a revolver and firing at Ourlet as Ourlet rode up, Ourlet hit, dropping on his horse, wheeling the animal about and riding furiously back toward the gates. Amid a babble of shouting from the men (tt the gates, a second shot rang out; a

moment later Ourlet was safely within the walls.

Someone sprang forward to help him from the horse, while others moved to shut the gates.

"Wait!" ordered Prageur.

He was watching the oncoming figure, and there was a curious intentness in his gaze. But before he could give a further order, the abrupt silence that had fallen was again broken — this time from behind them.

Gasparri, aroused by the outcries and the shots, had come from his quarters and had crept unseen to the gates. Suddenly he began to scream, his horrified eyes fixed upon the figure looming out of the sand waste.

"It's one of those dead ones! Dio! We are lost if he gets in!"

At the same moment, Ourlet gasped, "Something queer — he's not one of us." Then he collapsed.

Prageur had stepped forward and was even now bending above Gasparri.

But Gasparri went on, his voice rising. "Lieutenant, sir, it is a dead man. He'll kill all of us, just as he was killed. We can't kill him — he's dead already! Dio! Close the gates before it is too late!"

Terror spoke mutely from the sick man's trembling lips, from his haunted eyes. The man from Mechar was less than a hundred feet from the gate now, but he had not once looked up to see what lay ahead of him. There was menace in the way he held on to his weapon.

"Hide, all of you," Prageur ordered. 'Xeave the gates wide. Some of you crouch close to the wall. Some get on top and fall on him when he comes in. We'll take him alive!"

The men scrambled to obey, and in a few moments silence had fallen, all the men concealed, Cranston and Prageur dose to the gate in order to be among the first to attack. The sand sounded under

DEATH HOLDS THE POST


footsteps, and then the man from Mechar came through the opened gate.

Three Legionnaires who had been lying atop the wall launched themselves downward, one of them striking the intruder and carrying him to the sand with him. At the same moment men rushed at the man from Mechar from behind the gates and along the walls. The weapon he carried sounded only once; then it was wrenched from his grasp and he lay prone, unmoving, his kepi tipped off from his head.

It was over.

Then a long sob of horror rose from the men around the fallen Legionnaire, and there was a concerted backward movement. Cranston and Prageur pressed forward and saw. The face that had been hidden beneath the kepi was not a face. It was half exposed bone, half greenly rotting flesh! From it rose the odor of decaying flesh. The thing on the sand before them had been shot through the head a long time ago.

"Mon Dieu!" breathed Prageur, staring with wide eyes, and abruptly turned away. "Tie it up and put it away somewhere — oh, bury it!"

Reluctantly, four of the men moved to obey.

Prageur looked uncertainly at Cranston. "Come along," he murmured.

He moved to where Gasparri was leaning weakly against the wall, shuddering at the memory this foul invasion had brought to fresh life.

"Come, Gasparri," said Prageur gently, taking him by the arm and leading the way to his quarters.

"All right," said Prageur without preliminary, "I'll grant you that story, Gasparri. Don't ask me what I think about it — I've got nothing to say. I want to ask you something."

He took a fragment of paper from his desk. Cranston recognized it as the paper

upon which he had written the message from headquarters earlier in the day.

Prageur handed it to Gasparri. "Anything in that sound familiar to you?" he asked.

Gasparri took the paper wonderingly and read. Abruptly his expression changed. "Dio, yes!" he whispered harshly. "Tall thin man — sunken cheeks — livid scar on left cheek — gray hair," he read jerkingly, and looked up. "It's the man — the man who directs those dead ones!"

A mirthless smile appeared on Prageur's lips. "Get that, Cranston. Wire headquarters at once for detailed information on Prettweg and his documents."

Headquarters was vague. Their best was in a short wire that came two hours later:

PRETTWEG DANGEROUS LUNATIC WHO BELIEVES IN CERTAIN FORMULA CONCERNING REANIMATION OF DEAD BODIES STOP ESCAPED SANITARIUM AND MADE FOR COAST BELIEVED IN ALGERIA SINCB HE HAD TALKED OF GOING TO COUNTRY WHERE CONFLICT WAS IN PROGRESS STOP GERMAN GOVERNMENT RELUCTANT TO RELAY MORE STOP SURETE BELIEVES PRETTWEG IS ON TO SOMETHING DEVELOPED IN GERMAN LABORATORIES HAS ADDED DEVELOPMENTS FROM OWN DISEASED BRAIN STOP TAKE THIS MAN DEAD OR ALrVE.

The message gave scant satisfaction to Lieutenant Prageur. He studied it for a few moments in silence; then he dropped the paper with a mutter of impatience.

"Look here," he said, "reinforcements are due here almost any hour now, but we'll not wait. Forty of us march on Mechar tonight."

"Lieutenant, sir!" protested Gasparri. "Those men go to something worse than death!"

"Leave that to me, Gasparri," snapped



Prageur. "I'll lead them, and I'll lead most of them back here alive unless something goes seriously wrong. I don't think it will. Meanwhile, you keep a tight mouth about what you've told us; the men know that something's hitched up against them, and they're on edge. — You, Cranston, let Eilery take the telegraph; I've got a special use for you. Before you get ready, wire headquarters for three planes. We'll bomb Mechar, if necessary."

"But, sir, why sacrifice your men?" asked Gasparri.

"There will be little sacrifice," said Prageur. "We'll fake an attack. As long as I'm not entirely convinced of what's going on at Mechar, I'm not taking chances either way. We'll lead them to attack us, and then retreat. One of us will have to get into the post, will have to fake death — and that may mean death, I don't know. But that's our only way of finding out what's going on in there, and we'll lose the least men that way."

Gasparri nodded.

"I've picked you for that, Cranston," said Prageur suddenly.

For a moment Cranston felt a sick feeling invade him. Then he dispelled it. "Very well, sir," he said.

"You know what it means?"

"Yes, sir."

"All right. You're the man. Granting Gasparri 's story, your danger is twofold — the directing genius, Prettweg, may discover that you're not really dead and may have you killed; and you may be trapped in the post when the bombing begins^— if it becomes necessary to bomb. — All right, get ready. Send that wire for planes; I'll let the men know. Lehmann will be in charge until I come back—if I do."

The red globe of the sun was rising over the rim of the desert when the small troop of forty men sighted Mechar. A slight wind was blowing. Cranston and Prageur walked together at the side of the marching line.

"In case you don't come back?" asked the lieutenant soberly.

"Instructions for the disposal of what I own are in my quarters," replied Cranston curtly.

Prageur nodded. He took a small bottle from his pocket and gave it to Cranston. "Blood drawn just before we left,'' he said. "Spill it over your uniform and slit the cloth to resemble a bullet-hole. Take no more chance than you have to."

The lieutenant slowed up his men. Through his glasses he isolated a single figure high on the ramparts of Mechar, keeping carefully out of range.

"Prettweg, all right," he murmured, dropping his glasses. "I can make out the scar. Queer-looking devil."

Prageur ordered the men to break file, briefly repeated his earlier orders, spread them out, and ordered an advance. Cranston was well in the lead.

They were perhaps a hundred feet from the walls of Mechar when Prageur ordered them to fire. Prettweg had disappeared, and other figures had taken his place, carelessly exposing themselves to the fire of the Surdez men.

Immediately a volley of lead poured down on Lieutenant Prageur's men. And a second. But that was all, for at once the lieutenant ordered a retreat — indeed, some of the men had taken flight at the first volley, in accordance with Prageur's previous instructions. Cranston fell at the first volley, thinking fleetingly what supreme irony it would have been had he been shot and killed. Five other men fell with him. It was but the work of a few moments to uncork the bottle of blood

DEATH HOLDS THE POST


and let it soak into his uniform, which he had slit previously. Then he pushed the bottle deep into the sand.

From the corner of his eye he saw Prageur looking back; then he and the men were gone, and Cranston lay unmoving. He wondered what would happen now, warning himself not to move a muscle, to breathe shallowly. It seemed to him presently that hours were passing, but in a little while his ears caught the sound of activity behind the walls of the near-by post. The sun's heat had become terrific, and his hope that something would happen was intensified. Then he heard the gates of Mechar swing open.

From a carefully opened eye he saw a figure come forth alone, a revolver held menacingly in his hand. It was Doctor Prettweg. The old man was hatless, and his long white hair lent his face an air of benevolence, but nothing concealed the aura of diabolic evil about him — the crimson scar edged in blue and gray, the twisted mouth, the fierce, black eyes, loathsome and gloating. As Cranston watched, the doctor smiled at sight of the dead men, his pleasure ghoulishly manifest. He turned and made irritable motions to someone beyond the gates.

The first corpse lay at a distance of twenty feet from" Cranston. Against his better judgment, he continued to watch the mad doctor's approach. He saw him bend over the corpse, looking only casually at the body. Then Prettweg took a bottle from his pocket, opened it, and forced liquid into the dead man's mouth; he stood then, watching the corpse intently for a few moments, moving away only when he had seen — as Cranston, too, saw — a joint, horrible movement jrom the dead man!

Cranston restrained himself with a tremendous effort; he had seen something he knew to be impossible, yet

it was! Prettweg came on to the second corpse, and Cranston, following him with his eyes, saw that the second Legionnaire was not dead, for he moved feebly at the doctor's approach. Could it be that the first of them had not been dead either?

But what doubts Cranston had were horribly, brutally dispelled; for the doctor, noticing the movement, hesitated, assured himself that the man was in no position to inflict injury, and then callously put a bullet through the Legionnaire's head. Cranston steeled himself to keep from giving voice to his fury and horror.

The bottle again, and once more liquid down a dead throat.

Inside him, Cranston was shuddering with loathing for this inhuman beast. But no emotion rose to the surface. He lay now with his lips fallen apart, his jaw hanging loosely agape, and despite the terrific strain, with his eyes wide and turned up against the sun. He was completely relaxed and motionless, his breathing restrained as much as possible.

Footsteps came toward him. He was aware suddenly of the doctor's hand grasping his neck, of long, clammy fingers touching his skin, and the strain of simulating death became almost unbearable. Then the bottle was at his mouth, and acrid liquid touching his tongue, and Prettweg's grip relaxed. Cranston's head fell against the sand, his one thought that his most difficult first stage was over, for the doctor had noticed nothing amiss. Cranston let the viletasting liquid in his mouth drool out upon the sand.

Prettweg was standing among the dead, his now malign face contemplating the nearest corpse, his hands clasped behind him much in the attitude of a physician in consultation. But his attitude underwent a subtle change — an un230 WEIRD

holy joy came into the old man's eyes, his mouth upcurved in evil triumph, and it seemed that psychic power flowed from his entire body. He extended his arms in an all-embracing gesture, and his hands beckoned. Now his eyes became hypnotic, his aspect momentarily benign, and in an almost suggestively benign voice, he spoke.

"Come now, my children. Rise and follow me."

If he had not been too concerned about his own safety, Cranston might have given himself away in his terror at what followed Prettweg' s gentle words. For the dead began to move, stiffly, mechanically! One by one they rose and stood at attention, their dead faces turned expressionlessly toward the commanding figure whose medicine and mental magic had brought their bodies to ghastly life. Their arms hung limply at their sides, their heads were servilely bent, their eyes sought blankly for the directing force in the tall thin figure before them. Prettweg's gray hair, now ringed around by sunlight, lent him an ironical saintliness.

Cranston was the last to rise.

The doctor swept the six with his glance and looked back toward the fort.

Cranston felt deep within him the wish that the bombing planes might already be here. Let' them come! he thought, but there was no sound in the air.

"Come," said Prettweg.

He strode away toward the open gates, and the incredibly animated dead moved after him, Cranston among them; he too, like those others, walking with the automatic precision of somnambulists. He suffered a momentary impulse to shoot the doctor as he walked along with his back to him, but a confused sense of honor, combined with the conviction that he must get inside Mechar as Prageur had ordered, to verify Gasparri's ghastly story,

TALES

smothered his insane desire. His hands itched for the feel of his weapon, his entire body craved the maddening, satisfying pleasure of shooting down this inhuman monster who had such terrible power over the dead.

But surely there was already enough verification? Or was it nightmare? Cranston was walking at the side of a Surdez Legionnaire, Franz Klast, a German whom he remembered as a good fellow. Cranston had seen him shot, had seen him fall — for an instant he fancied that he labored under a monstrous delusion, a mad dream from which he must shake himself; for Klast could not be dead, since he walked at his side, alive!

"Klast!" he whispered. "For God's sake, talk to me!"

There was no answer.

Cranston turned his head recklessly to the side and looked at Klast, almost recoiling in horror at what he saw: the gaping hole in Klast's temple, torn by the fatal bullet fired by one of the dead from the walls of Mechar. The wound's black maw mocked Cranston.

Klast was walking sightlessly, animated by a ghastly force from beyond his body! A flash of intelligence gave sudden vision to Cranston — this madman Prettweg, controlling thousands upon thousands of dead, could ultimately sweep over the face of the earth, for his soldiers had conquered death, and were in themselves death. Death could sweep over the earth, could hold every fort, every outpost, every great city, could reign over all the country, directed by the cancerous brain of this madman! Far back, perhaps, some remote German scientist had manufactured this acrid elixir of life, but it took modern experimentation and the distorted mind of a madman to complete the frightful dreams of that earlier madman,

DEATH HOLDS THE POST


Cranston knew that every moment was vital. Prettweg must die, no matter what the cost.

Cranston looked guardedly ahead. Prettweg was just vanishing between the gates of Mechar. There was nothing to do but enter the post, and presently the shambling file of men passed through the gateway. Cranston heard the gates creaking shut behind him.

Prettweg must die! The thought drummed through his head. For without the doctor, the elixir was harmless — it needed the directing genius of this mad brain to complete the animation barely begun by the invention of a man now long forgotten. The font of this psychic power must be wiped out.

Now he stood, trapped within the walls of Mechar, he and a madman alone with a ghastly army of dead men. His companions had ceased to walk; they had stopped in their tracks, bodies wearily sagging. Cranston wondered whether Prettweg had removed that mysterious directing force. For a moment he allowed his lids to shut out the death around him, and strained his ears for the sound of motors humming in the sky.

There was nothing.

He looked cautiously around him. The quadrangle was cluttered with halfdecayed bodies of living dead men, some of them skeletal remains of Tuaregs whose bodies had long lain exposed to the sun! They stood dumbly against the walls, they sat in doorways or on the sweltering sand, their arms dangling between their legs, they leaned on the ramparts, watching the sky through eyes destined soon to sink in decay into their sockets. And Cranston stood among them, isolated and alone.

Prettweg came suddenly from one of the doorways. He stood before them suddenly, and again Cranston was struck

with the false saintliness lent him by the sun in his hair. The mad eyes were glowing again as from some inner vision, and presently the old man's lips parted and he began to speak, his voice slow and gentle, almost crooning, and yet alive with gloating power.

"Tomorrow, my children, we will take Surdez," he said. "There will be enough of us after that to move down the line upon post after post. This will be our country then. And afterward! I dream of what lies before us!"

The madness of him spoke from all his features. Once again Cranston conquered the desire to fire pointblank at the sinister face that seemed to hang in the arid heat of the quadrangle. For a moment Prettweg scanned their dead faces, and now his gaze lingered on Cranston. Could he suspect? Cranston wondered; or had he somehow seen Cranston's reckless movements of a few moments ago? But perhaps — more believably — he had in some way felt the mental force of another living mind! The thought froze Cranston with sudden fear; for surely this perceptive mind must have felt hate flowing toward him!

But Prettweg turned and began to walk away.

Instantly Cranston's fear broke into disorder. He whipped his revolver from its holster. But at the same instant, his dead comrades, galvanized into action by an un uttered command, flung themselves upon him. His revolver cracked, and a spurt of sand fanned into the air to show Cranston how far his bullet had gone from its mark. The Mechar and Surdez dead were upon him, grappling with him, struggling clumsily for his weapon, and others were pouring toward him from all sides. He felt their rotting arms wrapped about his limbs, felt their decaying fingers and the hardness of fleshless bones at his neck.



Revolvers cracked. He felt searing pains in his leg and shoulder, and went down under a mass of nauseating dead things. Still he fought. He had a momentary glimpse of Prettweg looking sardonically on, his mad face now afire with insane hatred, and saw that the doctor had a revolver ready to fire at Cranston's first appearance. With a painracking effort, he shifted under the struggling mass of dead, aimed wildly, and fired — once, twice, three times.

Abruptly the struggle ebbed away.

And died.

Cranston lay in the midst of a ghastly mound of dead flesh. He felt nausea assailing him, buried his face in his hands, and waited for death. Nothing happened. A moment passed and he looked up, pulling himself from the decaying flesh that pinned him down. He saw bodies fall from the ramparts like stones, saw the living dead in doorways sag and sprawl into the sand, saw the standing dead topple and collapse like empty sacks. And then he saw Doctor Prettweg against the wall of a near-by building sag gently and slide downward to the sand.

He writhed on the ground, shuddered, and died. Like a giant bird he lay, his white coat spread beneath his arms like the too feeble wings of some predatory creature, his long hair fanned away from his head, his arms outspread, his fingers twisted into the hot sand.

Cranston came unsteadily to his feet, his brain awhirl, the wounds in his leg and shoulder flaming with pain. It was over. The horror of living dead men had passed with Prettweg's death. Pray God it would never come again!

Abruptly he heard a familiar sound — the steady drone of racing planes. His mind struggled to free itself from the

horror of his surroundings. He must escape before the planes got there — but he alone could not open the gates in so short a time.

Then his mind cleared.

He began to run wildly toward the central building. Somewhere there must be the Foreign Legion flag. A glance told him it was no longer on the ramparts, the dead invaders having doubtless removed it. If he could find the flag or, failing to find it, if he could get to the roof and signal them — for they must know he was here. He could be certain they had first stopped at Surdez for instructions from Prageur.

He emerged on the roof to see the planes almost directly above, circling uncertainly about. At the same moment he caught sight of the flag, crumpled care* lessly into a corner. He ran and gathered it up in his arms, mounted the highest wall, and there let the flag stream out behind him as he ran along the perilous rampart.

The leading plane banked and another dipped toward him. He had a sickening conviction that machine-gun fire would sweep him from the wall, but the plane veered away. They had seen and understood. Cranston jumped to the roof again and saw men from Surdez coming across the dunes beyond the gate. For a moment only he stood there; then he felt again the increasing pain of his wounds and he toppled forward, lost in an unfathomable sea of blackness.

Cranston was back at his telegraph next day when Lieutenant Prageur entered, in his hand a report to be dispatched to headquarters. As he left the room he turned.

"By the way, you may depend upon promotion," he said crisply, smiling. Then he was gone.

DEATH HOLDS THE POST


With grim lips Cranston tapped out the report to headquarters:

THE GARRISON AT MECHAR WAS WIPED OUT BY A SURPRIZE ATTACK OF TUAREGS STOP HELD FORT AND WIPED OUT FIFTYFOUR OF OUR MEN STOP SURPRIZE ATTACK BY REMAINDER OF OUR MEN YESTERDAY TOOK MECHAR STOP TUAREGS FLED STOP DR OTTO PRETTWEG ABOUT WHOM WIRE RECEIVED TWO DAYS AGO

WAS KILLED IN ACTION AT MECHAR STOP HAD JOINED AND WAS LEADING TUAREG ATTACK STOP RELAY TO GERMAN AUTHORITIES.

That was all. It did not need Lieutenant Prageur's subsequent words to convince Cranston of the fitness of the message. "You remember how I took Gasparri's story at first. Can you imagine how they'd take it at headquarters, Cranston?"

The

iary

of Philip Westerly

By PAUL COMPTON

r A strange, brief tale of the terrible fear inspired by a man's horrendous reflection in a mirror

IT HAS been ten years since my uncle, Philip Westerly, disappeared. Many theories have been advanced as to why and how he vanished so strangely and so completely. Many have wondered why a man should vanish and leave nothing behind him but a smashed mirror. But none of these theories or wild imaginings are half so fantastic as the story I gathered from the diary which some whim prompted him to keep.

But first a word about Philip Westerly. He was a wealthy man, and also a cruel, selfish man. His wealth was attributed to this same cruelty and selfishness. He also had many whims. One of them

was keeping a diary. Another was his love for mirrors. He was handsome in a cruel sort of way and almost effeminate in his liking to stand before them and admire himself. This eccentricity was borne out by the fact that covering one whole side of his room was a mirror of gigantic size — the same mirror that is linked with his disappearance. But read the excerpts from the diary of Philip Westerly.

Aug. 3RD. Afternoon; Billings asked ^ for an extension on that note today, but I saw no reason why I should grant him any such thing. When I told him



this, he began cursing me in a frightful manner. He said I was cruel and that some day I would be called to account for the way I treated people. I laughed outright at this, but at the same time I felt a vague sense of uneasiness which even yet I have not dispelled.

Night: A remarkable thing has happened. I had gone to my room to dress for dinner and I was standing before the mirror tying my tie. I had begun the usual procedure that one follows, when I noticed that no such action was recorded in the mirror. True, there was my reflection in the glass, but it followed none of the movements that I made. It was immobile!

I extended my hand to touch the reflection and encountered nothing but the polished surface of the mirror. Then I noticed a truly remarkable thing. The reflection in the mirror wore no tie! I stepped back aghast. Was this an illusion? Had my mind and vision been affected by some malady that I was not aware of? Impossible! Then I regarded the reflection with a more careful scrutiny. There were a number of differences between it and myself. For one thing it wore a stubby growth of beard on its face. I was positive that I had visited the barber that very day and passed my hand across my chin to verify this. It encountered nothing but smooth skin. The lips of the man in the mirror drooped in a display of gnarled, yellow fangs, while my own bared nothing but two rows of gleaming, well-cared-for teeth.

I was filled simultaneously with a feeling of disgust and fear, and looked for further discrepancies. I found them. The feet and hands were abnormally large, and the clothing of the thing was old, baggy, and covered with filth.

I dared not stay longer. I tied the tie as best I could and descended hurriedly to dinner.

Aug. 4th. Morning: I awoke feeling jaded and tired. My friend in the mirror is still with me. Ordinarily the reflection of myself, in bed, is caught in the mirror, but not so this morning. Instead, I saw that the dweller within had, like myself, been having a night's rest. I hope he slept better than I did, for my own night was a series of fitful, restless tossings.

"Good morning/' I said, rising.

When I moved, he moved. As I advanced toward the mirror he drew closer to me. I stopped and surveyed him. He resembled me only remotely — I hope. I smiled, and he responded with a wolfish twist of his mouth. I extended my hand as if I wanted to shake hands with him, but he drew back as if from fire. I can't understand the terror which he holds for me. I try not to show my fear in front of him, but I feel that, animal-like, he senses it. I refer to the reflection as "he," "him," or "it," for I cannot bring myself to admit that the thing in the mirror is my reflection. But I scarcely dare write what I do believe it to be. I have always been skeptical about such things as "soul," but when I look into the mirror — God help me!

Night: I am spending much time in my room now. I've spent most of the day here. This thing is beginning to hold a morbid fascination for me. I can't stay away for any length of time. I wish I could. My wife is beginning to worry about me. She says I look pale. 5he tells me I need a rest — a long rest. If I could only confide in her! In anyone! But I can't. I must fight and wait this out alone.

Aug. 5 th. There has been little or no change in our relationship. He still remains aloof.

Today my wife came to my room to see how I was feeling. She stood in such

THE DIARY OF PHILIP WESTERLY


a position that looking into the mirror was unavoidable. She stood before the mirror arranging her hair. She noticed nothing out of the ordinary, but he was still there. Damn him! He was still there, and this time he snarled in triumph at me.

One other remarkable thing. My wife hadn't seen the thing there in the mirror, but neither had I seen her reflection. It was the same with Peter, my valet, and Anna, the maid. Anna would have dusted the mirror had I not stopped her. I must take no chances. A close scrutiny might reveal him to them, and they must not know — they must not know!

AUG. 6th. Three days. Three days of t hell! That's what it has been since I discovered that damned thing. How he tortures me! He has begun to mock me. When he thinks he has given an extraordinarily clever impersonation he shakes with laughter. I can't hear him laugh. But I see him. And that's worse. I can't stand it much longer!

Aug. 7th. We never know how much we can stand until we go through some ordeal such as I am now undergoing. But I feel that my nerve is near the breaking-point.

I have locked the door of my room. Anna leaves a tray outside my door. Sometimes I eat the food she brings, but more often I don't. My wife begs me to let her in, but I tell her to go away. I'm afraid to tell her — I'm afraid to tell anyone. I know what they do with people who have "hallucinations". No, I

can't tell. Neither can I leave. God knows why, but I can't.

Aug. 8th. It was day before yesterday that I mentioned his mocking me. Today — I tremble at the thought — he is beginning to resemble me! This morning I looked in the mirror and discovered that he had discarded his rags and was now dressed in one of my suits. I ran to the wardrobe and discovered his clothes hanging where mine had been. I turned and faced him. He laughed and pointed toward my hands and feet. They were bloated beyond recognition. I dare not guess how far this change has gone. I can write no more today.

Aug. 9th. The change is complete. He looks more like me than I do myself. He has grown more cruel with the change. He taunts me with my ugliness. Finally I could stand it no longer. I fled from the room. At last I found the thing I was looking for — a mirror. When I came face to face with what I now am I nearly collapsed. Yes, he has taken my form. God pity me! I've taken his!

I slunk back to the room in horror. Back to his laughter and the hell that is now my existence. God knows what tomorrow will bring!

Aug. 10th. Seven days since that devil has been in the mirror. I have prayed to God that it may be the last. It will! I know it will! He, in the mirror, senses it too. I see the look of apprehension in his eyes. Damn him! It's my turn to snarl in triumph now. For when I lay down this pen, for the last time, perhaps, I shall leap through the mirror. And he exists only in the mirror. God help me! / am laying down my pen!

n the Dark

By RONAL KAYSER

It was a tale of sheer horror that old Asa Gregg poured into the dictaphone

THE watchman's flashlight printed a white circle on the frosted-glass, black-lettered door:

GREGG CHEMICAL CO., MFRS. ASA GREGG, PRES. PRIVATE

The watchman's hand closed on the knob, rattled the door in its frame. Queer, but tonight the sound had seemed to come from in there. . . . But that couldn't be. He knew that Mr. Gregg and Miss Carruthers carried the only keys to the office, so any intruder would have been forced to smash the lock.

Maybe the sound came from the storage room. The watchman clumped along the rubber-matted corridor, flung his weight against that door. It opened hard, being of ponderous metal fitted into a cork casing. The room was an air-tight, fire-proof vault, really. His shoes gritted on the concrete floor as he prowled among the big porcelain vats. The flashlight bored through bluish haze to the concrete walls. Acid fumes escaping under the vat lids made the haze and seared the man's throat.

He hurried out, coughing and wiping his eyes. It was damn funny. Every night lately he heard the same peculiar noise somewhere in this wing of the building. . . . Like a body groaning and turning in restless sleep, it was. It scared him. He didn't mention the mystery to anyone, though. He was an old man, and he didn't want Mr. Gregg to think he was getting too old for the job.

"Asa 'd think I was crazy, if I told him about it," be mumbled*


Inside the office, Asa Gregg heard the muttered words plainly. He sat very still in die big, leather-cushioned chair, hardly breathing until the scrape of the watchman's feet had thinned away down the hall. There was no light in the room to betray him; only the cherry-colored tip of his cigar, which couldn't be visible through the frosted glass door. Anyway, it'd be an hour before the watchman's round brought him past the office again. Asa Gregg had that hour, if he could screw up his nerve to use it. . . .

He took the frayed end of the cigar from his mouth. His hand, which had wasted to mere skin and bone these past few months, groped through the darkness, slid over the polished coolness of the dictaphone hood, and snapped the switch. Machinery faintly whirred. His fingers found the tube, lifted it.

"Miss Carruthers!" he snapped. Then he hesitated. Surely, he could trust Mary Carruthers! He'd never wondered about her before. She'd been his secretary for a dozen years — lately, since he couldn't look after affairs himself as he used to, she had practically run the business. She was forty, sensible, unbeautiful, and tight-lipped. Hell, he had to trust her!

His voice plunged into the darkness.

"What I have to say now is intended for Mrs. Gregg's ears only. She will take the first boat home, of course. Meet that boat and bring her to the office. Since my wife knows nothing about a dictaphone, it will be necessary for you to set this record running. As soon as you have done so, leave her alone in the room. Make

sure she's not interrupted for a half-hour. That's all."

He waited a decent interval. The invisible needle peeled its thread into the revolving wax cylinder.

"Jeannette," muttered Asa Gregg, and hesitated again. This wasn't going to be easy to say. He decided to begin matterof-factly. "As you probably know, my will and the insurance policies are in the vault at the First National. I believe you will find all of my papers in excellent order. If any questions arise, consult Miss Carruthers. What I have to say to you now is purely personal — I feel, my dear, that I owe you an explanation — that is "

God, it came harder than he had expected.

"Jeannette," he started in afresh, "you remember three years ago when I was in the hospital. You were in Palm Beach at the time, and I wired that there' d been an accident here at the plant. That wasn't strictly so. The fact is, I'd gotten mixed up with a girl "

He paused, shivering. In the darkness a picture of Dot swam before him. The oval face, framed by gleaming swirls of lemon-tinted hair, had pouting scarlet lips, and eyes whose allure was intensified by violet make-up. The full-length picture of her included a streamlined, full-blossomed and yet delectably lithe Body. A costly, enticing, Broadwaychorus orchid! As a matter of fact, that was where he'd found her.

"I won't make any excuses for myself," Asa Gregg said harshly. "I might point out that you were always in Florida or Bermuda or France, and that I was a lonely man. But it wasn't just loneliness, and I didn't seek companionship. I thought I was making a last bow to Romance. I was successful, sixty, and silly, and I did all the damn fool things — I even wrote letters to her. Popsy-wopsy

letters." The dictaphone couldn't record the grimace that jerked his lips. "She saved them, of course, and by and by she put a price on them — ten thousand dollars. Dot claimed that one of those filthy tabloids had offered her that much for them — and what was a poor working-girl to do? She lied. I knew that.

"I told her to bring the letters to the office after business hours, and I'd take care of her. I took care of her, all right. I shot her, Jeannette!"

He mopped his face with a handkerchief that was already damp.

"Not on account of the money, you understand. It was the tilings she said, after she had tucked the bills into her purse . . . vile things, about the way she had earned it ten times over by enduring my beastly kisses. I'd really loved that girl, and I'd thought she'd cared for me a little. It was her hate that maddened me, and I got the gun out of my desk drawer "

Asa GREGG reached through the darkLi ness for the switch. He fumbled for the bottle which stood on the desk. His hand trembled, spilling some of the liquor onto his lap. He drank from the bottle. . . .

This part of the story he'd skip. It was too horrible, even to think about it. He didn't want to remember how the blood pooled inside Dot's fur coat, and how he'd managed to carry the body out of the office without leaking any of her blood onto the floor. He tried to forget the musky sweetness of the perfume on the dead girl, mingled with that other evil blood-smell. Especially he didn't want to remember the frightful time he'd had stripping the gold rings from her fingers, and the one gold tooth in her head. . . .

The horror of it coiled in the blackness about him. His own teeth rattled against



the bottle when he gulped the second drink. He snapped the switch savagely, but when he spoke his voice cringed into the tube:

"I carried her into the storage room. I got the lid off one of the acid tanks. The vat contained an acid powerful enough to destroy anything — except gold. In fact, the vat itself had to be lined with goldleaf. I knew that in twenty-four hours there wouldn't be a recognizable body left, and in a week there wouldn't be anything at all. No matter what the police suspected, they couldn't prove a murder charge without a corpus delicti. I had committed the perfect crime — except for one thing. I didn't realize that there'd be a s plush when she went into the vat."

Gregg laughed, not pleasantly. His wife might think it'd been a sob, when she heard this record. "Now you understand why I went to the hospital," he jerked. "Possibly you'd call that poetic justice. Oh, God!"

His voice broke. Again he thumbed off the switch, and mopped his face with the damp linen.

The rest — how could he explain the rest of it?

He spent a long minute arranging his thoughts.

"You haven't any idea," he resumed, "no one has any idea, of how I've been punished for the thing I did. I don't mean the sheer physical agony — but the fear that I'd talk coming out of the ether at the hospital. The fear that she'd been traced to my office — I'd simply hidden her rings away, expecting to drop them into the river — or that she might have confided in her lover . . . yes, she had one. Or, suppose a whopping big order came through and that tank was emptied the very next day. And I couldn't ask any questions — I didn't even know what was in the papers.

"However, that part of it gradually

cleared up. I quizzed Miss Carruthers, and learned that an unidentified female body had been fished out of the East River a few days after Dot disappeared That's how the police 'solved' the case. I got rid of her rings. I ordered that vat left alone.

"The other thing began about six months ago."

A spasm contorted his face. His fingers ached their grip into the dictaphone tube.

"Jeannette, you remember when I began to object to the radio, how I'd shout at you to turn it off in the middle of a program? You thought I was ill, and worried about business. . . . You were wrong. The thing that got me was hearing her voice "

He gripped the cold cigar, chewed it. "It's very strange that you didn't notice it. No matter what station we dialed to, always that same voice came stealing into the room! But perhaps you did notice? You said, once or twice, that all those blues singers sounded alike!

"And she was a blues singer. ... It was she, all right, somewhere out in the ether, reminding me. . . .

"The next thing was — well, at first when I noticed it in the office I thought Miss Carruthers had suddenly taken up with young ideas. You see, I kept smelling perfume."

And he smelled it now. It was like & miasma in the dark.

"It isn't anything that Carruthers wears," he grated. "It comes from — yes, the storage room. I realized that about a month ago. Just after you sailed — one night I stayed late at the office, and I went in there. ... It seemed to be strongest around the vat — her vat — and I lifted the lid.

"The sweet, sticky musk-smell hit me like a blow in the face. "And that isn't all!"

IN THE DARK


Terror stalked in this room. Asa Gregg crouched in his chair, felt the weight of Fear on him like a submarine pressure. His cigar pitched to his knees, dropped to the floor.

"You won't believe this, Jeannette." He hammered the words like nails into the darkness in front of him. "You will say that it's impossible. I know that. It is impossible. It is a physiological absurdity — it contradicts the laws of natural science.

"But I saw something on the bottom of that vat!"

He groped for the bottle. His wife would hear a long gurgle, and then a coughing gasp. . . .

"The vat was nearly full of this transparent, oily acid," he went on. "What I saw was a lot of sediment on the golden floor. And there shouldn't have been any sediment! The stuff utterly dissolves animal tissue, bone, even the common ores — keeps them in suspension.

"It didn't look like sediment, either. I looked like a heap of mold . . . gravemold!

"I replaced the lid. I spent a week convincing myself that it was all impossible, that I couldn't have seen anything of the sort. Then I went to the vat again "

Silence hung in the darkness while he sucked wind into his lungs. And the words burst — separate, yammering shrieks:

"I looked, night after night! For hours at a time I've watched the change. . . . Did you ever see a body decompose? Of course not! Neither have I. But you must know in a general way what the process is. Well, this has been the exact opposite!

"First, I stared at the heap of gravemold as it shaped itself into bones, a skeleton.

"I watched the coming of hair, a yellow tangle of it sprouting from the bare round skull, until — oh, God! — the flesh began making itself before my eyes! I couldn't bear any more. I stayed away — didn't come to the office for five days."

The tube slipped from his sweating, slick fingers. Panting, Asa Gregg fumbled in the dark until he found it.

Exhaustion, not self-control, flattened his voice to a deadly monotone. "I tried to think of a way out. If I could fish the corpse out of the tank! But I couldn't smuggle it out of the plant — alone. You know that, and so do I. Besides, what would be the use? If acid can't kill her, nothing can.

"That's why I can't have the lid cemented on. It wouldn't do any good, either! Until three days ago, she hadn't the least color, looked as white as a ghost in the vat. A naked ghost, because there's been no resurrection for her clothing. . . .

"I've watched her limbs grow rosy! Her lips are scarlet! Her eyes are bright — they opened yesterday — and her breasts were rising and falling — oh, almost imperceptibly — but that was last night.

"And tonight — I swear it — her lips moved! She muttered my name! She turned — she'd been lying on her side — over onto her back!"

The record would be badly blurred. His hand shook violently, bobbled the tube against his lips. Gregg braced his elbow against the desk.

"She isn't dead," he choked. "She's only asleep . . . not very soundly asleep. . . . She's waking up!"

The invisible needle quivered as it traced several noises. There was his tortured breathing, and the clawing of his fingernails rattling over the desk. The drawer clicked as it opened.

The loud click was the cocking of the revolver.



"Soon she's going to get out of that vat!" Gfegg bleated. "Jeannette, forgive me — God, forgive me— but I will not — I cannot — I dare not stay here to see her then!"

The sound of the shot brought the watchman stumbling along the corridor. He crashed against the office door. It banged open in a shower of falling frosted glass. The watchman's flashlight

severed the darkness, and printed its white circle on the face of Asa Gregg.

He had fallen back into the chair, a blackish gout of blood running from the hole in his temple. He stared sightlessly into the light with his eyes that were two gnarls of shrunken brown flesh, like knots in a pine board.

Asa Gregg was blind . . . had been, since that night three years past when the acid splashed. . . .

r

our Wooden Stakes*

By VICTOR ROWAN

THERE it lay on the desk in front of me, that missive so simple in wording, yet so perplexing, so urgent in tone:

Jack:

Come at once for old-time's sake. Am all alone. Will explain upon arrival.

Remson.

Having spent the past three weeks in bringing to a successful termination a case that had puzzled the police and two of the best detective agencies in the city, I decided I was entitled to a rest; so I or-

• From WEIRD TALES for February. 1925.

dered two grips packed and went in search of a time-table. It was several years since I had seen Remson Holroyd; in fact, I had not seen him since we had matriculated from college together. I was curious to know how he was getting along, to say nothing of the little diversion he promised me in the way of a mystery.

The following afternoon found me standing on the station platform of the little town of Charing, a village of about fifteen hundred souls. Remson's place

W. T. — 7

FOUR WOODEN STAKES


was about ten miles from there; so I stepped forward to the driver of a shay and asked if he would kindly take me to the Holroyd estate. He clasped his hands in what seemed to be a silent prayer, shuddered slightly, then looked at me with an air of wonder, mingled with suspicion.

"I dun't know what ye wants to go out there fer, stranger, but if ye'll take the advice of a God-fearin' man ye'll turn back where ye come from. There be some mighty fearful tales concernin' that place float in' around, and more'n one tramp's been found near there so weak from loss of blood and fear he could hardly crawl. They's somethin' there. Be it man or beast I dun't know, but as fer me, I wouldn't drive ye out there for a hundred dollars — cash."

This was not at all encouraging, but I was not to be influenced by the talk of a superstitious old gossip; so I cast about for a less impressionable rustic who would undertake the trip to earn the ample reward I promised at the end of the ride. To my chagrin, they all acted like the first; some crossed themselves fervently, while others gave me one wild look and ran, as if I were in alliance with the devil.

By now my curiosity was thoroughly aroused, and I was determined to see the thing through to a finish if it cost me my life. So, casting a last, contemptuous look on those poor, misguided souls, I stepped out briskly in the direction pointed out to me. However, I had gone but a scant two miles when the weight of the valises began to tell, and I slackened pace considerably.

The sun was just disappearing beneath the treetops when I caught my first glimpse of the old homestead, now deserted but for its one occupant Time and the elements had laid heavy hands W. T. — 8

upon it, for there was hardly a window that could boast its full quota of panes, while the shutters banged and creaked with a noise dismal enough to daunt even the strong of heart.

About one hundred yards back I discerned a small building built of gray stone, pieces of which seemed to be lying all around it, partly covered by the dense growth of vegetation that overran the entire countryside. On closer observation I realized that the building was a crypt, while what I had taken to be pieces of the material scattered around were really tombstones. Evidently this was the family burying-ground. But why had certain members been interred in a mausoleum while the remainder of the family had been buried in the ground in the usual manner?

Having observed thus much, I turned my steps toward the house, for I had no intention of spending the night with naught but the dead for company. Indeed, I began to realize just why those simple country folk had refused to aid me, and a hesitant doubt began to assert itself as to the expediency of my being here, when I might have been at the shore or at the country club enjoying life to the full.

By now the sun had completely slid from view, and in the semi-darkness the place presented an even drearier aspect than before. With a great display of bravado I stepped upon the veranda, slammed my grips upon a seat very much the worse for wear, and pulled lustily at the knob.

Peal after peal reverberated throughout the house, echoing and re-echoing from room to room, till the whole structure rang. Then all was still once more, save for the sighing of the wind and the creaking of the shutters.

A few minutes passed, and the sound of footsteps approaching the door reached my ears. Another interval, and the door



•was cautiously opened a few inches, while a head shrouded by the darkness scrutinized me closely. Then the door was flung wide, and Remson (I hardly knew him, so changed was he) rushed forward and, throwing his arms around me, thanked me again and again for heeding his plea, till I thought he would go into hysterics.

I begged him to brace up, and the sound of my voice seemed to help him, for he apologized rather shamefacedly for his discourtesy and led the way along the wide hall. There was a fire blazing merrily in the sitting-room, and after partaking generously of a repast, for I was famished after my long walk, I was seated in front of it, facing Remson and waiting to hear his story.

"Jack," he began, "I'll start at the beginning and try to give you the facts in their proper sequence. Five years ago my family circle consisted of five persons: my grandfather, my father, two brothers, and myself, the baby of the family. My mother died, you know, when I was a baby. Now "

His voice broke and for a moment he was unable to continue.

"There's only myself left," he went on, "and so help me God, I'm going, too, unless you can solve the damnable mystery that hovers over this house, and put an end to that something which took my kin and is gradually taking me.

"Granddad was the first to go. He spent the last few years of his life in South America. Just before leaving there he was attacked while asleep by one of those huge bats. Next morning he was so weak he couldn't walk. That awful thing had sucked his life-blood away. He arrived here, but was sickly until his death, a few weeks later. The medicos couldn't agree as to the cause of death; so they laid it to old age and let it go at that. But I knew better. It was his experience in the south that had done for him. In his

will he asked that a crypt be built immediately and his body interred therein. His wish was carried out, and his remains lie in that little gray vault that you may have noticed if you cut around behind the house.

"Then my dad began failing and just pined away until he died. What puzzled the doctors was the fact that right up until the end he consumed enough food to sustain three men, yet he was so weak he lacked the strength to drag his legs over the floor. He was buried, or rather interred, with granddad. The same symptoms were in evidence in the cases of George and Fred. They are both lying in the vault. And now, Jack, I'm going, too, for of late my appetite has increased to alarming proportions, yet I am as weak as a kitten."

"Nonsense!" I chided. "We'll just leave this place for a while and take a trip somewhere, and when you return you'll laugh at your fears. It's all a case of overwrought nerves, and there is certainly nothing strange about the deaths you speak of. They are probably due to some hereditary disease. More than one family has passed out in a hurry just on that account."

"Jack, I only wish I could think so, but somehow I know better. And as for leaving here, I just can't get away. There is a morbid fascination about the place which holds me. If you want to be a real friend, just stick around for a couple of days, and if you don't find anything I'm sure the sight of you and the sound of your voice will do wonders for me."

I agreed to do my best, although I was hard put to keep from smiling at his fears, so apparently groundless were they. We talked on other subjects for several hours; then I proposed bed, saying that I was very tired after my journey and subsequent walk. Remson showed me to my room, and, after seeing that ever)- *



thing was as comfortable as possible, he bade me good-night.

As he turned to leave the room, the flickering light from the lamp fell on his neck and I noticed two small punctures in the skin. I questioned him regarding them, hut he replied that he must have beheaded a pimple and that he hadn't noticed them before. He again said goodnight and left the room.

I undressed and rumbled into bed. During the night I was conscious of an overpowering feeling of suffocation — as if some great burden was lying on my chest which I could not dislodge; and in the morning, when I awoke, I experienced a curious sensation of weakness. I arose, not without an effort, and began divesting myself of my sleeping-suit, f As I folded the jacket I noticed a thin : line of blood on the collar. I felt my neck, a terrible fear overwhelming me. It pained slightly at the toudi. I rushed to examine it in the mirror. Two tiny dots rimmed with blood — my blood — and on my neck! No longer did I chuckle at Remson's fears, for //, the thing, had attacked me as I slept!

I dressed as quickly as my condition would permit and went downstairs, thinking to find my friend there. He was not about, so I looked about outside, but he ( was not in evidence. There was but one answer to the question. He had not yet arisen. It was nine o'clock, so I resolved [ to awaken him.

Not knowing which room he occupied, I entered one after another in a fruitless search. They were all in various stages of disorder, and the thick coating of dust on the furniture showed that they had been untenanted for some time. At last, in a bedroom on the north side of the third floor, I found him. I He was lying spread-eagle fashion across the bed, still in his pajamas, and

LET ME TELL YOU

About your business, travel, changes, matrimony, love affairs, friends, enemies, lucky days and many other interesting and Important affairs of your life as Indicated by astrology. Send for your special Astral Reading. All work strictly scientific. Individual and guaranteed isatlsf actor y. FOR MANY YEARS PRIVATE ASTROLOGICAL ADVISER TO ROYALTY and the ELITE. Write name, address and date of birth plainly. No money reaulred. but if you like send 20 cents (stamps; No Coins), to help defray costs.

Address: PUNDIT TABORE. (Dept. 426-B). Upper Forjett Street. BOMBAY VII. BRITISH INDIA. Postage to India, 1b 6c.

YOU CAN !

^^^^^^

CONTROL YOUR FATE

Only one power controls your destiny— a strange force sleeping in your mind. Awaken it! Command it to obey you! Push obstacles aside and attain your fondest hopes and ideals. The Rosicrucians know bow.

Write For Free Booklet

Learn why great matters through the agea were Roskrucians. Free booklet tells the fascinating story of this age old Fraternity and how to obtain its priceless teachings. Write to: Scribe M. M. B.,

THE ROSICRUCIANS (AMORC)

SAN JOSE, CALIFORNIA

Dept. H-20

Buy your Drag Sundries, Specialties, Supplies, Novelties, etc., direct from manufacturer through oar M nil-Order Dept. All personal items are mailed postpaid by as In plain sealed package. We hare everything. Send for FREE, illustrated mall-order catalog.

THE N-R MFG. CO.

Box 353 Hamilton. Ontario

CONTROLS

Disease of Blood

An effective treatment against disease of blood. Used for 60 years. Home Treatment. Hundreds of Endorsements. Whatever the cause, however far advanced, write for FREE Book.

t. 63

Me.

JOHN STERLING REMEDY CO. fcB S?£2DIRECT from FRANCE

Rare and curious French books translated Into English. Ask for our new illustrated catalogue just issued. Two sample books with our catalogue for SI. 00 bill. Catalogue only 15c (stamps).

NOUVEAUTES PROUVE. Bureau restant. Pavilions -sous -Bois (Seine). France.

WANTED

Old and Rare Money. You may have $100.00 penny. Keep posted. Valuable coins pass through your hands dally. Before sending coins mall 10c for new 1938 coin book. Union Coin Company, Box 976, Muskogee, Okla.



as I leaned forward to shake him my eyes fell on two drops of blood, spattered on the coverlet. I crushed back a wild desire to scream and shook Remson rather roughly. His head rolled to one side, and the hellish perforations on his throat showed up vividly. They looked fresh and raw, and had increased to much greater dimensions. I shook him with increased vigor, and at last he opened his eyes stupidly and looked around. Then, seeing me, he said in a voice loaded with anguish, resignation, and despair:

"It's been here again, Jack. I can't hold out much longer. May God take my soul when I go!"

So saying, he fell back again from sheer weakness. I left him and went about preparing myself some breakfast. I had thought it best not to destroy his faith in me by telling him that I, too, had suffered at the hands of his persecutor.

A walk brought me some peace of mind, if not a solution, and when I returned about noon to the big house Remson was up and around. Together we prepared a really excellent meal. I was hungry and did justice to my share; but after I had finished, my friend continued eating until I thought he must either disgorge or burst. Then, after putting things to rights, we strolled about the long hall, looking at the oil paintings, many of which were very valuable.

At one end of the hall I discovered a portrait of an old gentleman, evidently a Beau Brummel in his day. He wore his hair in the long flowing fashion adopted by the old school, and sported a carefully trimmed mustache and Vandyke beard. Remson noticed my interest in the painting and came forward.

"I don't wonder that picture holds your interest, Jack. It has a great fascination for me, also. At times I sit for hours studying the expression on that face. I sometimes think he has something to tell

me, but of course that's all tommy rot. But I beg your pardon, I haven't introduced the old gent yet, have I? This is my granddad. He was a great old boy in his day, and he might be living yet but for that cursed bloodsucker. Perhaps it is such a creature that's doing for me; what do you think?"

"I wouldn't like to venture an opinion, Remson, but unless I'm badly mistaken we must dig deeper for an explanation. We'll know tonight, however. You retire as usual and I'll keep a close watch and we'll solve the riddle or die in the attempt."

Remson said not a word, but silently extended his hand. I clasped it in a firm embrace, and in each other's eyes we read complete understanding. To change the trend of thought I questioned him on the servant problem.

"I've tried time and again to get servants that would stay," he replied, "but about the third day they would begin acting queer, and the first thing I'd know they'd have skipped, bag and baggage."

That night I accompanied my friend to his room and remained until he had disrobed and was ready to retire. Several of the window-panes were cracked, and one was entirely missing. I suggested boarding up the aperture, but he declined, saying that he rather enjoyed the night air; so I dropped the matter.

As it was still early, I sat by the fire in the sitting-room and read for an hour or two. I confess that there were many times when my mind wandered from the printed page before me and chills raced up and down my spine as some new sound was borne to my ears. The wind had risen, and was whistling through the trees with a peculiar whining sound. The creaking of the shutters tended to further the eery effect, and in the distance could be heard the hooting of numerous owls, mingled

(Please turn to page 246 )

COMING NEXT MONTH

IN THE sun the shadow tracery of the grille's symbolic pattern lay vividly outlined on the ground. The girl gave a little gasp of delight. She dropped Smith's hand and ran forward three short steps, and plunged into the very center of that shadowy pattern on the ground. And what happened then was too incredible to believe.

The pattern ran over her like a garment, curving to the curve of her body in the way all shadows do. But as she stood there striped and laced with the darkness of it, there came a queer shifting in the lines of black tracery, a subtle, inexplicable movement to one side. And with that motion she vanished. It was exactly as if that shifting had moved her out of one world into another. Smith stared stupidly at the spot from which she had disappeared.

Then several things happened almost simultaneously. The 200m of an airplane broke suddenly into the quiet, a black shadow dipped low over the rooftops, and Smith, too late, realized that he stood defenseless in full view of the searching ships. There was only one way out, and that was too fantastic to put faith in, but he had no time to hesitate. With one leap he plunged full into the midst of the shadow of the tree of life.

Its tracery flowed round him, molding its pattern to his body. And outside the boundaries everything executed a queer little sidewise dip and slipped in the most extraordinary manner, like an optical illusion, into quite another scene. There was no intervention of blankness. It was as if he looked through the bars of a grille upon a picture which without warning slipped sidewise, while between the bars appeared another scene, a curious, dim landscape, gray as if with the twilight of early evening. The air had an oddly thickened look, through which he saw the quiet trees and the flower-spangled grass of the place with a queer, unreal blending, like the landscape in a tapestry, all its outlines blurred.

In the midst of this tapestried twilight the burning whiteness of the girl he had followed blazed like a flame. She had paused a few steps away and stood waiting, apparently quite sure that he would come after. . . .

You cannot afford to miss this gripping tale of the planet Mars and the terrible monstrosity that called its victims to it from afar; a tale of that intrepid man of valor whose name was Northwest Smith. This fascinating novelette will be published complete in the October issue of Weird Tales:

THE TREE OF LIFE

By C. L. Moore

Also

ISLE OP THE UNDEAD

By Lloyd Arthur Eshbach I A gripping, thrilling, uncanny tale about the frightful fate that befell a yachting party on the , dreadful island of the living dead men.

DOOM OF THE HOUSE OF DURYEA

By Earl PEmcE, Jr. r A powerful story of stark horror, and the dreadful thing that happened in a lone cabin in the Maine , woods.

THE LOST DOOR

By Dorothy Quick An alluring but deadly horror out of past centuries menaced the life of the young American — a fascinating tale of a strange and eery love.

THE OPENER OF THE WAY

By Robert Bloch A tremendous tale about the dread doom that overtook the archeologist in that forgotten tomb beneath the desert sands of Egypt.

October WEIRD TALES . . . Out September 1




Four Wooden Stakes

( Continued from page 244 )

with the cries of miscellaneous night fowl and other nocturnal creatures.

As I ascended the two flights of steps, the candle in my hand casting grotesque shadows on the walls and ceiling, I had little liking for my job. Many times in the course of duty I had been called upon to display courage, but it took more than mere courage to keep me going now.

I extinguished the candle and crept forward to Remson's room, the door of which was closed. Being careful to make no noise, I knelt and looked in at the keyhole. It afforded me a clear view of the bed and two of the windows in the opposite wall. Gradually my eyes became accustomed to the darkness and I noticed a faint reddish glow outside one of the windows. It apparently emanated from nowhere. Hundreds of little specks danced and whirled in the spot of light, and as I watched them, fascinated, they seemed to take on the form of a human face. The features were masculine, as was also the arrangement of the hair. Then the mysterious glow disappeared.

So great had the strain been on me that I was wet from perspiration, although the night was cool. For a moment I was undecided whether to enter the room or to stay where I was and use the keyhole as a means of observation. I concluded that to remain where I was would be the better plan; so I once more placed my eye to the hole.

Immediately my attention was drawn to something moving where the light had been. At first, owing to the poor light, I was unable to distinguish the general outline and form of the thing; then I saw. It was a man's head.

So help me God, it was the exact reproduction of that picture I had seen in

the hall that very morning. But oh, the difference in expression! The lips were drawn back in a snarl, disclosing two sets of pearly white teeth, the canines overdeveloped and remarkably sharp. The eyes, an emerald green in color, stared in a look of consuming hate. The hair was sadly disarranged, while on the beard was a large clot of what seemed to be congealed blood.

I noticed thus much; then the head melted from my sight and I transferred my attention to a great bat that circled round and round, his huge wings beating a tattoo on the panes. Finally he circled around the broken pane and flew straight through the hole made by the missing glass. For a few moments he was shut off from my view; then he reappeared and began circling around my friend, who lay sound asleep, blissfully ignorant of all that was occurring. Nearer and nearer it drew, then swooped down and fastened itself on Remson's throat, just over the jugular vein.

At this I rushed into the room and made a wild dash for the tiling that had come night after night to gorge itself on my friend; but to no avail. It flew out of the window and away, and I turned my attention to the sleeper.

"Remson, old man, get up."

He sat up like a shot.

"What's the matter, Jack? Has it been here?"

"Never mind just now," I replied. "Just dress as hurriedly as possible. We have a little work before us this evening."

He glanced question ingly toward me, but followed my command without argument. I turned and cast my eye about the room for a suitable weapon. There was a stout stick lying in the corner and I made toward it.

"Jack!"



I wheeled about.

"What is it? Damn it all, haven't you any sense, almost scaring a man to death?"

He pointed a shaking finger toward the window.

"There! I swear I saw him. It was my granddad, but oh, how disfigured!"

He threw himself upon the bed and began sobbing. The shock had completely unnerved him.

"Forgive me, old man," I pleaded; "I was too quick. Pull yourself together and we may yet get to the bottom of things tonight."

When he had finished dressing we left the house. There was no moon out, and it was pitch-dark.

I led the way, and soon we came to within ten yards of the little gray crypt. I stationed Remson behind a tree with instructions to just use his eyes, and

I took up my stand on the other side of the vault, after making sure that the door into it was closed and locked. For the greater part of an hour we waited without results, and I was about ready to call it off when I perceived a white figure flitting between the trees about fifty feet away.

Slowly it advanced, straight toward us, and as it drew closer I looked, not at it, but through it. The wind was blowing strongly, yet not a fold in the long shroud quivered. Just outside the vault it paused and looked around. Even knowing as I did about what to expect, it was a decided shock when I looked into the eyes of the old Holroyd, deceased these past five years. I heard a gasp and knew that Remson had seen, too, and recognized. Then the spirit, ghost, or whatever it was, passed into the crypt through the crack between the door and the jamb, a space not one-sixteenth of an inch wide.

pnttMiuniiwinmniiHiiniiniiHii^

| SPECIAL MONEY-SAVING SUBSCRIPTION OFFER |

| One Year 02 issues @ 2Sc = $3.00— you save soc) $2.50 |

I Two Years (24 issues <§> 25c = se.oo— you save $2.00) $4.00 |

I Three Years (36 issues @ 25c = $9.00 — YOU SAVE $4.00) $5.00 I


To any address in the United States or possessions

Central America, Cuba. Mexico. South America and Spain

For Canada, Newfoundland and Labrador add 25c a year extra for postage. To all other countries add 50c a year extra for postage.

| ^"USE THIS COUPON FOR SUBSCRIBING 1


| i §

WEED TALES, 840 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago, HL, U. S. A.

Enclosed find $ for which please enter my subscription to

WEIRD TALES for years to begin with the October issue.

Name

Address „

City „ State

■aniiniiaiiiwiiwiwiiBiiwtHiniiHiwiiBtimiwwMBiiiniiwHW



As it disappeared, Remson came running forward, his face wholly drawn of color.

"What was it, Jack? What was it? I know it resembled granddad, but it couldn't have been he. He's been dead five years!"

"Let us go back to the house," I answered, "and I'll explain things to the best of my ability. I may be wrong, of course, but it won't hurt to try my remedy. Remson, what we are up against is a vampire. Not the female species usually spoken of today, but the real thing. I noticed you had an old edition of the Encyclopedia Brittanica. If you'll bring me volume XXIV I'll be able to explain more fully the meaning of the word."

He left the room and returned, carrying the desired book. Turning to page 52, I read:

"Vampire. A term apparently of Servian origin originally applied in eastern Europe to blood-sucking ghosts, but in modern usage transferred to one or more species of blood-sucking bats inhabiting South America. ... In the first mentioned meaning a vampire is usual If supposed to be the soul of a dead man which auits the buried body by night to suck the blood of living persons. Hence, when the vampire's grave is opened his corpse is found to be fresh and rosy from the blood thus absorbed. . . . They are accredited with the power of assuming any form they may so desire, and often fly about as specks of dust, pieces of down or straw, etc. ... To put an end to his ravages a stake is driven through him, or his head cut off, or his heart torn out, or boiling water and vinegar poured over the grave. . . . The persons who turn vampires are wizards, witches, suicides, and those who have come to a violent end. Also, the death of any one resulting from these vampires will cause that person to join their hellish throng. . . . See Calumet's Dissertation on the Vampires of Hungory-"

I looked at Remson. He was staring straight into the fire. I knew that he realized the task before us and was steeling himself to it. Then he turned to me.

"Jack, we'll wait until morning." That was all. I understood, and he

knew. There we sat, each struggling with his own thoughts, until the first faint glimmers of light came struggling, through the trees and warned us of approaching dawn.

Remson left to fetch a sledge-hammer and a large knife with its edge honed to a razor-like keenness. I busied myself making four wooden stakes, shaped like wedges. He returned bearing the horrible tools, and we struck out toward the crypt. We walked rapidly, for had either of us hesitated an instant I verily believe both would have fled incontinently. However, our duty lay clearly before us.

Remson unlocked the door and swung it outward. With a prayer on our lips, we entered.

As if by mutua* understanding, we both turned toward the coffin on our left. It belonged to the grandfather. We displaced the lid, and there lay the old Holroyd. He appeared to be sleeping; his face was full of color, and he had none of the stiffness of death. The hair was matted, the mustache untrimmed, and on the beard were stains of a dull brownish hue.

But it was his eyes that attracted me. They were greenish, and they glowed with an expression of fiendish malevolence such as I had never seen before. The look of baffled rage on the face might well have adorned the features of the devil in his hell.

Remson swayed and would have fallen, bu I forced some whisky down his throat and he took a grip on himself. He placed one of the stakes directly over its heart, then shut his eyes and prayed that the good God above take this soul that was to be delivered unto Him.

I took a step backward, aimed care*



fully, and swung the sledge with all my strength. It hit the wedge squarely, and a terrible scream filled the place, while the blood gushed out of the open wound, up, and over us, staining the walls and our clothes. Without hesitating, I swung again, and again, and again, while it struggled vainly to rid itself of that awful instrument of death. Another swing and the stake was driven through.

The thing squirmed about in the narrow confines of the coffin, much after the manner of a dismembered worm, and Remson proceeded to sever the head from the body, making a rather crude but effectual job of it. As the final stroke of the knife cut the connection a scream issued from the mouth; and the whole corpse fell away into dust, leaving nothing but a wooden stake lying in a bed of bones.

This finished, we dispatched the remaining three. Simultaneously, as if struck by the same thought, we felt our throats. The slight pain was gone from mine, and the wounds had entirely disappeared from my friend's, leaving not even a scar.

I wished to place before the world the whole facts contingent upon the mystery and the solution, but Remson prevailed upon me to hold my peace.

Some years later Remson died a Christian death, and with him went the only confirmation of my tale. However, ten miles from the little town of Charing there sits an old house, forgotten these many years, and near it is a little gray crypt. Within are four coffins; and in each lies a wooden stake stained a brownish hue, and bearing the finger prints of the deceased Remson Holroyd.

BACK COPIES

Because of the many requests for back issues of Weird Tales, the publishers do their best to keep a sufficient supply on hand to meet all demands. This magazine was established early in 1923 and there has been a steady drain on the supply of back copies ever since. At present, we have the following back numbers on hand for sale:

1»31

IMS



It3«

Jan.

Jan.

Jan.

Jan.

Jan.

Feb.

Feb.

Feb.

Feb.

Feb.

Mar.

Mar.

Mar.

Mar.

Apr'.

Apr.

Apr.

Apr.

Apr.

May

May

May

May

June

June

June

June

June

July

July

July

July

July

Aug.

Aug.

Aug.

Aug.

Sept

Sept.

Sept.

Oct.

Oct.

Oct.

Nov.

Nov.

Nov.

Nov.

Dec.

Dec.

Dec.

Dec.

These back numbers contain many fascinating stories. If you are interested in obtaining any of the back copies on this list please hurry your order because we can not guarantee that the list will be as complete as it now is within the next 30 days. The price on all back issues is 25c per copy. Mail all orders to:


840 N. Michigan Ave. Chicago, Illinois* U. S. A.

YOU, the readers of Weird Tales, will notice that this issue is dated August-September, instead of merely August. The change in dating is made in accordance with the current trend in magazine dating, so that Weird Tales will be on sale during the month preceding the date printed on the cover. Our next issue (October) will appear on the stands the first of September; so there will be no break in continuity. All subscriptions will be automatically extended one month.

Death of Robert E. Howard

As this issue goes to press, we are saddened by the news of the sudden death of Robert E. Howard at Cross Plains, Texas. Mr. Howard for years has been one of the most popular magazine authors in the country. He was master of a vivid literary style and possessed an inexhaustible imagination. His poems were works of sheer genius. His fictional characters — the dour Puritan adventurer and redresser of wrongs, Solomon Kane; the ancient battle-chief King Kull from the shadowy kingdoms of the dawn of history ; the doughty barbarian soldier of fortune, Conan — were so convincingly and vividly drawn that they seemed to step out from the printed page and grip the sympathies of the readers. It was in Weird Tales that the cream of his writing appeared. Mr. Howard was one of our literary discoveries. He made his literary debut in Weird Tales of July, 1925, while he was still a student in the University of Texas. Since then sixty works from his hand have appeared in this magazine. Prolific though he was, his genius shone through everything he wrote, and he did not lower his high literary standard for the sake of mere volume. Red Nails, his current serial in Weird ( Talks, is the last of the stories about Conan,


though several of Mr. Howard's stories with other heroes will appear in this magazine. His loss will be keenly felt.

An Ace Issue

Robert A. Madle, of Philadelphia, writes: "The June Weird Tales was another ace issue. Everything composing it was good. The cover was the weirdest Margaret Brundage ever did. The Count looks as weird and uncanny as Dracula himself. Loot oft the Vampire was an excellent piece of fantastic fiction. Thorp McClusky surely has 'what it takes.' His first story ranks as my favorite in the current issue. Hugh Davidson's House of the Evil Eye closely follows Mr. McClusky's yarn. I recognized Doctor Dale as one of the chief characters of The Vampire -Master, published a few years back. The other stories were all good, especially Black Canaan."

Strange Interval

Wilfred Wright, of Toronto, writes: "All stories in the current issue show the usual fine literary style, although this issue is markedly lacking in weirdness. I await with keen interest your readers* comment on Seabury Quinn's Strange Interval — a splendid horror story of unrefined brutality; but remembering this author's de Grandin yarns one must forgive the lapse from weirdness. While I enjoyed it immensely, and would unhesitatingly give it first place, it automatically disqualifies itself, and Burks' The Room of Shadows gets the call, followed closely by Hamilton's Child of the Winds. The Graveyard Rats by Kuttner was the most gruesome weird tale this year. Generally WT progresses splendidly over the many years I have been a reader, and I wish you continued success*"



Alias Hemken's Comments

Gertrude Hemken, of Chicago, writes: "June comments as follows, to wit: Thorp McCIusky is a new author to me, but his Loot of the Vampire promises something very, very interesting. The fact that a detective detail is involved should bring no unfavorable comment, inasmuch as it is a vampire story. I feel that it shows an example of the modern police system against something far more ancient and deep than any form of public protection. It is truly a spine-freezing tale. Another new note in vampire tales — the Count, if he is the vampire, resorts to robbery. I never knew them to do that. Aaaahh ! Black Canaan was also perfect, the kind one reads with eyes popping and mouth agape. Is this a form of voodoo one reads so much of, or is it something more ancient? And then I learned something ' more, of which I had only a smattering knowledge — that of the evil eye. Somehow I had believed the evil eye was used only on such persons as the possessor wished to harm. So — you are proving educational to me as well. It seems I have not been fair in not including comments on the poetry in my monthly letter, inasmuch as I am a lover of poetry. This Ballad of the Wolf I found pleasant reading. There was a rhythmic swing to it, and although it snoke of olden days, I found no obsolete words. I have no objections to such words in prose, but they seem to jar the rhythm of poetry. Invariably I don't know what they mean, I'm not sure of my pronunciation, and that kinda spoils it. I think Henry Kuttner is a pretty good rimester. I hope to see more of his work. The Ruler of Fate ended to my satisfaction. Narsty Aru was killed dead and lovely Athonee was left to control her machine of destiny with kindliness to the man of Earth. And I s'pose the hero and heroine were married and lived happily ever afterward. I found The Harbor of Ghosts very interesting. Somehow it was different from what I had been reading, and when the young sailor entered the harbor of ghost ships, I had the impression of the fabled elephants' graveyard. There was a similarity in that the lost ship sought a final restingplace wim others of its kind. The reprint, The Brain in the lor, surprized me. I had figured it to be a brain wielding malignant power and cruel devastating horror. However, it was a very nice brain and sought

IO< BOO!

LOOK OVERjg$ THIS LlSTVtl>#S

Never before such bargains! Every book complete, well edited, large clear type, paper bound, colored covers. Big value. Order today !

— WitdtM-OrMm Book

-facts About Nudum —84 Ne w Card Trie** -How lo Make Loire

Mystic Fortune Toller - Mo. Or*am Boo* i Btt wu il Drsaks

-Book ot Coin Tricks -L«S40i« in Mypnot

-Made Made Easy -Sen Facts tar Maw -200 Battling Pui -Best lri*h Jokes -ill Conundrums

-Lucky » -Stories „ -Book ot FUrtaUoos -Marrtad Life Jokes

- Art of Sparrinc aad Boxing

- One ol CleoniWs Merits

- Minstrel Jokes —How to Piny Poker -Tahjs ot French LOVS) —How to Play Checkers — S8 Stunts tor P a rt ies —Fortune Telling by Card*

SEND TBI Air ORDER TODAY

Price 10c each. ■ books for 25c. 6 books for 60c. or II bock* lor S1.00. No C. O. D. rairpmsnta. Salic taction guaranteed.

FHANHXIN PUBLISHING CO. 800 I*. Clark St., Dept. G-201 Chicago

-^^r^'oftfflJ —Modern Love Letters -Vaudeville Jokes -Ses Facts for Women -J S3 Parlor Tricks —Snappy Jokes

QUIT TOBACCO

N'o man or woman can escape toe

harmful effects of tobacco. Don't try to banish unaided toe bold tobaooo has upon you. Join tbe thousands of inveterate tobaooo users that have found It easy to quit with the aid of the Keeley Treatment.

Treatment For Tobacco Habit Successful For Over SO Years

Quickly banishes all craving for tobacco. Write today for Free Book telling how to quickly Free yourself from the tobaooo habHand our Money Back Guarantee.

ofthe fsBjrina Keeley Treatment for Urroor sod Drags.

L CosTo s pea rt ssss ■irlsMy CcoftdeacTal.

Dacrt. w ■ 3 1 8 Dwlght. minora

KEELEY

Heat ee H panose

THE KXELEY INSTITUTE

PHOTOCRAPHIC ALMANAC

and Bargain Book of CAMERAS & SUPPLIES t

Explains latest Inrrntloni. mvtbods In PbokHrraoby and Home Movie MaktorTfarfua and profits. Of fare hundreds of amarlng, money- saT- (:>« Bargains to jull end sserkt [Cameras. Leases. Films, etc. Used

tSUfSSS ££e»\VSrrSl CENTRAL CAMERA CO.. Est. 1889 230 S.Wabash. Dr.pt.237S. Chicago. U. ».A.

ART LESSONS ii«

Bees ore Talented Artist with Kf Income < I

:omel

UBOTJ" I

attar- ■ <

of

». ad*. I ay. »ut. ete., with oat ospoedle*. Yoo ret ell 60 leefor next lesson, Over 816 In-

. COURM

without coMsurrf

sons st ones -no waiting f< r im nani. o ainiction llluitntlnna. 126 pages of drawing paprr y ■ met. rtond oary S1.»3 for complete course postpaid engages -1HEV BACK if not

year a pa r e lime lets MOSaTV Rsclne. Wlls.

I Doataae. MONEY BACK

ing. Start Now turning yowr apa

EOUCATIONAL adPPLY CO., Dept. A 162 C

Receive Gigantic Mails, Magazines, Samples

Your name In 1.000 mailing lists, 10c. Fairbanks. Dept. 10-D. 100 Forsyth St.. New York City.

Subscribe to Weird Tales



only to destroy the man who had tortured the man of whom the disembodied brain was once a part. I wouldn't call that operation weird surgery — merely cold-blooded unfeeling science. NufF sed- — will greet you again next month. Mayhap you will have some real chillers, which will be doubly welcome, if I know Chicago's summers."

"A Punch in the Nose** William L. Ebelein, of Baltimore, writes: "My seven favorite authors in order are Quinn, Moore, Kline, Williamson, Davidson, Hamilton and Howard. The Jules de Grandin stories by Quinn are very good. Please try your best to make Quinn write more de Grandin stories. It has been nearly six months since you published the last one. J have noticed, with very much regret, that during the past three years Quinn has given us only about ten de Grandin stories. A few years ago I remember Quinn wrote about six or seven de Grandin stories per year. Make him produce or I will feel like giving him a good punch in the nose. I think ic about time for Kline to give us one of his fantastic novels about Mars, Venus, or any other planet very soon. What say?" [A superb story about Jules de Grandin, entitled Witch-House, will be published soon. — The Editor.]

Weirder Than Ever

Nils Helmer Frome, of East Orange, New Jersey, writes: "1 halted as I sped past a magazine stand — I always do that — magazines have a fascination for me. Weird Tales wasn't the only one I looked at, but it held my ga2e the longest. I lingered and languished — my purse wasn't exactly blooded. I bought it. That is the synopsis on the repeating incident that is among the most important in my years. Weird Tales has become weird again — or else my appreciation has risen. The covers of the last two issues were wonderfully weird. Great credit due to Brundage — she's really quite competent when she gets started — if she would only quit those nothing-on dames — she has no idea what a female figure looks like, even if she is a woman herself. Although I am far from an authority in that line myself, I know that a figure true to life is far from what can be effected by even a skilled guesser. And that external sadness in those eyebrows lifted in between the temples gets me with its monotony; why not a pointed pair

of eyelashes, such meaning a mischievous nature; an arching pair — or a pair that swing in a curve from the temples and drop back; anything but those poor, fluttery lines Brundage favors always. Brundage must have such eyebrows — and the general contour of the faces of her bright-eyed heroines — for almost invariably an artist favors his or her type to depict. And why not put more life and horror into the faces — a shrinking type — a staring type — a fascinated type — a shadowed full-face type — a fainting type with half-closed eyes. The hands might be bettered, too. Advise her, Editor, to watch people's hands and catch their personality — their grace."

The Two Ranking Authors

H. W. Morlan, of Fort Knox, Kentucky, writes: "I feel a bit timid, since this is my first letter to the readers' forum. I have followed the magazine since its inception and have at last worked up courage enough to write. Since you ask your readers' opinions on the stories appearing in our magazine, let me say that the two ranking authors, in my opinion, are H. P. Lovecraft and Clark Ashton Smith. Lovecraft has no equal for horror build-up. His climaxes hit you like Schmeling's right-hand punch. Howard's creations, Kull and Conan, are superb. Your other authors are too numerous to enumerate, but the majority turn in the high quality of work typical of our magazine. . . . whether or not this is printed I remain an enthusiastic booster of the best magazine on the market."

Is This Sarcasm?

Marshall Lemer, of New York Gty, 1 writes: "Occasionally, in the tumult and the shouting over the latest exquisite little tale featuring Jules de Grandin, one still comes upon a reader that feels impelled to bring up the subject of nudes on the covers, a question that I thought had been settled long ago. De gustibus non est dis putandum ; thus one young man writes that he 'didn't expect the stories to match the covers*, while another earnest critic sadly notes that 'a reader is ashamed to buy a copy (because of the cover) on the news stands.' But let the discussion turn out as it will, I must say that I admire the artistic sense that prompts Brundage to select invariably what is frequently the one nude in the entire issue for tne cover illustration. Indubitably she adopts


this policy in order to attract new lovers of the weird and unusual to our ever-widening circle of readers. And to add to the confusion of the old guard, when they finally persuade Brundage to cover her naked women, she does so in such a manner that more readers write in to ask that such indecent pictures be stopped. And so, when I say that I like nudes, since they seem to arouse a certain eery thrill (in admiration of the weird elements that Brundage portrays so well, of course), I seem to be concurring with the general opinion. True, occasionally I receive a curious glance from the gentleman that presides over the local news stand when I ask for Weird Tales, and once I received a copy of Spice and Ginger Stories in pardonable error, but I am no Milquetoast, ana can bear the bitter with the sweet as well as the rest."

He Wants Lovecraft's Stories Ivan Funderburgh, R. R. 5, Huntington, Indiana, writes: "The best story of the May issue is The Faceless God. That is one of the best stories I have ever read. I intend to re-read it many times. The history of Nyarlathotep is interesting. Bloch is approaching Lovecraft. Finlay's illustration is wonderful. I enjoyed Strange Interval, but the shark incident isn't enough to make it weird fiction. . . . If this should get into the Eyrie, would any reader be willing to sell me Lovecraft's works at a reasonable price? If so, will he please send me a price list?"

Satan's Sub-villain

Robert W. Lowndes, of Canaan, Connecticut, writes: "It is almost with trepidation that one picks up the June issue; the April and May numbers were so excellent in every respect, a let-down seems almost inevitable. If the illustrations are in any way indicative of the stories themselves, then one's fears can be laid; they are splendid. There is one complaint, though: the lettering on the cover. Is the billboard effect necessary? Of course, all the cheap magazines do it, but that is why it seems so utterly out of place in WT. Moreover, I had expected to see you adopt permanently the block picture style you had on the May issue. It is so eminently superior to the others, so completely distinctive and unique, one wonders why you ever left it. Of course, it is admitted that it does cut down a bit on the cover picture. But the May cover did not

CLASSIFIED ADVERTISEMENTS

SMALL ADS WORTH WATCHING

Books

ENJOY WILL SOGERS' humorously interesting viewpoints In — •'American Dollars." "European Nobility, "Cowpunchln'." $1 each. Three $2. Limited. Hurry! Francis Sales, Box 173, Ashland, Oregon.

Business Opportunities

FRANKLY— Would you give $1.00 for a chance to make $45.00, and up, weekly? No canvassing. Particulars tor stamp. Schan Service, 13838 Mitchell, Detroit, Michigan.

NEWSPAPER CLIPP1NOS PAY. Write GOOdalL 330 Bankers Investment Bldg.. San Francisco.

MART: EAflNTNG EXTRA CASH YOUR HOBBY.

New ideas. Literature 10c. Thornton, Box 1184. Long Beach, Calif.

START A BUSINESS OF YOUR OWN1 Become a subscription representaUve for "WEIRD TALES." No capital required. Liberal commissions. Monthly bone-:. Write for details. Circulation Manager. WEIRD TALES Magazine. 840 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago, Hi.

Chirograpky

HAVE YOUR HANDWRITING ANALYZED. Know

your talents, peculiarities, handicaps! Send page in in:\, addressed, stamped envelope. Fee — 50c. A. McNeil). Box 783, Wrentham, Massachusetts.

Horoscope

SPECIAL OFFER! Horoscope Reading, 23c. State date of Birth. M. Carrarlni, 213 E. 71st St.. Chicago,

m

Keys

MASTER KEYS that open hundreds of locks. Handy

in emergencies. 50c brings set postpaid. J. K. Kennedy. R. No. 3. Shelby, N. C.

Medical

TOOTH-ACHE— "Golden Ace" will not fail you. Get yours today. Postpaid 25c. The Golden Lab., 4813 Lake St., Chicago. 111.

Miscellaneous

SUCCESSFUL BRAINS. The guide to a full pocketbook. New Ideas. Original plans. Money-making secrets and valuable lnformaUon. Write National Supply, Box 1761. Station D, Cleveland. Ohio.

POCKET GOODS — Adults write for descriptive circulars. Frank Shilling, 1017-S Dueber, Canton, Ohio.

Razor Blades — Sharpening

MEN — Sharpen your own safety razor blades with a Rex Hone. Puts a keen, sharp edge on all blades. Hone 20c postpaid (no stamps). Whelan Bros., 15SS Garland, Detroit. Mich.

A Ghostly Voice from the Ether !

It was as rf some phantom were whispering through the ether in the language of another planet. Read

"THE MOON TERROR"

(in book form) PRICE — ttOe

Subscribe to WEIRD TALES



suffer in any respect because the figures were not complete; you had this style of cover in 1931, I recall; why not effect a joyful return? Think also of the many readers who save WT covers; what a boon a picture, neatly blocked off, devoid of all lettering, is to them! They must either take the cover, besprinkled with ads which do not in any way add to the languorous charms of Mrs. Brundage's beauties, as is, or must cut out the figures. And the lettering below the picture on the May cover is conspicuous enough, yea, even more than the mass effect on the June cover. Again, there is the script heading, The Unique Magazine,' truly a part of WT's personality. Can we not have that, at least? One hopes that sufficient letters pour in from other readers similarly minded to show that there is a real majority of feeling on this score. Allow me to pan Mr. Paul Ernst, before going any farther, for his remarkable sub-villain, Girse. Of course, it is not uncommon for WT characters to die several times before making their final exit, but this one had a truly unique demise. He was utterly consumed in The Consuming Flame (quite appropriately) and Satan vowed vengeance. The doctor must have found enough remnants of his departed henchman to revive him, because Girse is well and healthy in Horror Insured until Keane again sends him to a fiery doom. And again Doctor Satan vows vengeance; I looked for Girse to appear in The Devil's Double but evidently Satan decided that Girse was too vulnerable for further resurrections. Perhaps Bostiff, now dead for the first time, can outdo Girse's record. Outside of this one amusing boner, the series have been fine."

Comments on the June Issue

Charles H. Bert, of Philadelphia, writes: "I liked the June issue. For the first time in months you have a real weird cover. Count Woerz, who holds the fragile morsel of humanity in his hands, is certainly evil-looking and would raise the hair on a bald spot. M. Brundage has just the right mixture of the pastel crayons, green and yellow, on the Count's face, giving the expression of a dead-alive corpse. The cover is commendable and in the spirit of the magazine. I have not read Loot of the Vampire, but I am sure it will come up to expectations. Without a doubt the best story in the issue is Black

Canaan by Robert E. Howard. He shows a knowledge of the southern Cajuns and displays it pridefully. If I may say so, I consider Black Canaan superior to The Hour of the Dragon, and weirder. The Conan stories are generally spoiled by excessive slaughter. I cannot be weirdly thrilled month after month, year after year, in which the hero is always slaughtering his enemies with a twofisted sword. The first few tales were splendid with a primitive power and fired the imagination. But the ones that followed consist of practically the same thing with not much variation in plots. The main thing in those stories was the excessive slaughter. 'Red battles' and 'mighty deeds' don't inspire one with a weird feeling; perhaps to others they do, but not to me. Here's hoping Red Nails, the new Conan serial, pleases me. The description sounds good. I like Hugh Davidson's House of the Evil Eye very much, although I know that Davidson is the nom de plume of Edmond Hamilton. You see, the style of writing betrays him. Hamilton is turning out some very good yarns lately, and I rate House of the Evil Eye among his best. The story is not as impossible as it sounds. I have a clipping somewhere in my file of strange facts which states that the eye emanates a ray which affects certain forms of vegetable growths. Incredible, but true. It was a recent discovery of modern science. Hamilton is very good when he turns out stories like Child of the Winds, In the World's Dusk, and Murder in the Grave, and quite otherwise when he turns out such junk as The Six Sleepers, with its warped misguided future civilization, and The Great Brain of Kaldar with its lifeless stock characters, impossible happenings, and brainless entities. I was surprized to find The Brain In the far as a reprint. I gave up hope years ago of ever seeing that splendid story once more in Weird Tales. IT I remember correctly, the story was requested by a reader in 1929. I enjoyed it very much and it still stands out as one of the 'eye of prophecy' stories; one of those stories upon which the fame of the magazine was built. It is still unique and different. I don't consider the story impossible. A few months ago Russian scientists discovered a means of preserving living human blood for three months, and you know how complex blood is. Those admirable Russians are going ahead with the


human tissues, and who knows m another year or so, may find the means of preserving living parts of the human anaromy? Doctor A. Carrel, you know, has kept the heart of a chicken alive for twenty-five years. So you sec, in the light of modern science, the impossible sounds possible after all. The Telephone in the Library by August W. Derlcth was fine. His tales are told with a prosaic naturalness carrying the illusion of reality and never disappoint one. I have never read a poor yarn by him. The Grinning Ghoul by Robert Bloch is the best thing he has ever done. It seems to me that Bloch continues to become better in each succeeding tale. The English atmosphere in The Druidic Doom wasn't convincing to me. More than half of the story was taken up by tedious descriptions of the legend which formed the background of the story. 1 found the same fault with the African desert scene of The Faceless God. Bloch is on familiar ground in his latest concoction and is no slouch with the pen. The Ruler of Fate by Jack Williamson comes to a satisfactory conclusion. His characters are human beings and not like the dummies I have read in stories in other magazines. Athonee appeals to me very much, even if she wasn't a human being. Aru is a despicable person and I would be delighted widi the job of choking him. Golden Blood still remains as Williamson's most outstanding story. The best of the short stories was The Harbor of Ghosts by Bardine. Lethe was a very good yarn, and MordecaFs Pipe will delight the hearts of pipe connoisseurs."

Concise Comments

Paul M. Guignon, of Philadelphia, writes: "I am quite a reader of Weird Tales. I like the way it is distinguished from other magazines of its kind. Of all the stories you have published, I enjoyed particularly The Thing in the Fog, by Seabury Quinn, in the March issue of 1933. That story, I am sure, is a masterpiece of weird fiction."

Edmond Hamilton writes from his home in Pennsylvania: "I think your June number has a more arresting cover get-up than any yet. I mean the vertical story-list on the cover seems a swell idea to me, and I hope you keep it up."

Mrs. H. H. Hughes, of Lawton, Oklahoma, writes: "Beginning with the first issue of Weird Tales, in 1923, why not take

NEXT MONTH

ISLE OF THE UNDEAD

By Lloyd Arthur Eshbach

Many readers like to read shuddery stories that send icy thrills of horripilation up their spines and tickle the roots of their hair. This powerful tale is just what they want, for it is a goose-flesh tale of stark horror.

The guests at Clifford Darrell's yachting party were enjoying themselves with dancing and lovemaking, when suddenly a grisly horror from out of die past swept in from the sea in an ancient galley, and claimed them for its own. The frightful fate that seized them on the dreadful island of living dead men and women makes a story that will hold your fascinated attention to the last word. This gripping novelette will be published complete

in the October issue of


on sale September I

To avoid misting jour copy, dip and mail this coupon today ]or SPECIAL SUBSCRIPTION OFFER, /^fli (* oa Save 25c)

WTCJRD TALES

840 N. Michigan Ave.

Chicago, 111.

Enclosed find Si. 00 for which send me the next five issues of WEIRD TALES to begin with the October issue. (Special offer void unless remittance Is accompanied by coupon.)

Name

Address

City State.


the best story in each issue as a reprint? I like the reprints, as I haven't all the copies and would have missed a lot of good stories."

John V. Baltadonis, of Philadelphia, writes: "No wonder the characters in Thorp McClusky's Loot of the Vampire considered the Count an eery monster! He certainly looks it, at least in Mrs. Brundage's picturization of that fiendish monster. I was disappointed that Loot of the Vampire turned out to be a serial. Think of it, I'll have to wait a few issues before 1 can read the rest of the story."

Alan Chesselet, of Bandon, Oregon, writes: "I have been reading your magazine for about three years and look forward to reading it for a long while yet. As long as I can remember, my mother has bought it and read it, and she talks and praises it so much that she has me reading it."

Doctor Satan's Secret

Beverly G. Grocke, of Arlington, New Jersey, writes: "What about Paul Ernst letting us in on his secret? Who is Doctor Satan? And why isn't he ever caught with his mask off? Can't he die? The Rajah's Gift, your April reprint, was very good. . . . Give us something like C. L. Moore's Yvala again; it was a honey. Yours for better weird tales."

Against the Covers

E. M. Stubbs, of Detroit, writes: "I am well satisfied with your stories, but I do not

like your covers. Brundage has deteriorated, greatly, since she began illustrating in 1933. Her covers are not weird; and after seeing practically the same woman on the cover, month after month, it grows tiresome, to say the least. The best artists you have ever had are St. John and C. C. Senf. I suggest that you let diem each do at least one cover. Give them a trial, and see how your readers like them."

Books of Weird Tales

Jesse Mackay, of Tacoma, writes: "I have been reading your magazine for three years now, and I'd like to make a suggestion. Why couldn't you publish your stories in book form, with illustrations taken from the cover designs? Of course, go on printing the magazine, but have these for the ones that would really like to keep the stories. I've been saving the magazine, but it is hard to keep them in good condition. My favorite for the June issue is Black Canaan, by Robert E. Howard.

Most Popular Story

Readers, what is your favorite story in this issue? Wtite us a letter expressing your preferences, or fill out the vote coupon below and send it to the Eyrie, in care of Weird Tales. Two stories are in an exact tie, as this issue goes to press, for favorite story in the June number. These are Robert E. Howard's story of a terrible retribution, Black Canaan, and part one of Thorp McClusky's two-part serial, Loot of the Vampire.

MY FAVORITE STORIES IN THE SEPTEMBER WEIRD TALES ARE: Story Remarks

(1)

(2)

(3).

(1) (2)

I do not like the following stories:

Why?

It will help us to know what kind of stories you want in Weird Tales if you will fill out this coupon and mail it to | The Eyrie, Weird Tales, 840 N. Michigan I - Ave., Chicago, 111. I —

Reader's name and address:

W. T. — 8

While They Last !

At

Special Close-out Price

50c

THE MOON TERROR, by A. G. Birch, is a stupendous weird-scientific novel of Chinese intrigue to gain control of the world.

ALSO— OTHER STORIES

In addition to the full-length novel, this book also contains three shorter stories by well-known authors of thrilling weirdscientific fiction:

OOZE, by Anthony M. Rud, tells of a biologist who removed the growth limitations from an amoeba, and the amazing catastrophe that ensued.

PENELOPE, by Vincent Starrett, is a fascinating tale of the star Penelope, and the fantastic thing that happened when the star was in perihelion.

AN ADVENTURE IN THE FOURTH

gi The Wood 4 Terra

_ R. ;. :

hound in rich blue cloth with attractive orangecolored cover jacket.

DIMENSION, by Farnsworth Wright, is an uproarious skit on the four-dimensional theories of the mathematicians, and interplanetary stories in general.

LIMITED SUPPLY

Make sure of getting your copy now before the close-out supply is exhausted. Send your order today for this book at the special bargain price of only 50c.

Note: This book for sale from the publishers only. It cannot be purchased in any book store.

H'KIRD TALKS. Book Dept. Hid N. Michigan Ave.. Chicago, III., I". S. A.

Enclosed find 50e for cloth-bound copy of THE MOON TERROR as per your special offer.

Name.

Address

City State.

SHAKESPEARE LIVES AGAIN

— in new modern book-magazine form

£ the features:


[THE END]

============================================================
LYCANTHROPUS C
by Edgar Bolen
============================================================
Press Comment

Shnkc*peare's Plays In Magazine Form

A MIDSUMMER NIGHTS DREAM By U illiam Shakespeare. Edited by Farnstcarth Wright. Chicago l Wright's Shakespeare Library, 35 cents.

HERE is a brand-new idea in publishing the Shakespeare plays, this being the first of the scries. In this magazine-like publication, the complete authentic text is printed in large and beautiful type on good paper with ample margin, with 25 drawings by Virgil Finlay. The purpose is to make Shakespeare as attractive to everybody as he should be. Both the editor and the illustrator are Shakespeare enthusiasts, and they are realizing a life-long dream in thus presenting the plays in the most readable fornj at a popular price. Only the spelling and the punctuation have been modernized, and at the end there is a glossary and a scries of comments.


[THE END]

============================================================
WEREWOLF OF THE SAHARA G. G
by Pendarves
============================================================
— The Columbw Dispatch.

A MIDSUMMER NIGHT'S DREAM.

By William Shakespeare. Wright's • Shakespeare Library. A de luxe edition with authentic text, large print and 25 excellent illustrations.

— The Milwaukee Journal.

A MIDSUMMER NIGHT'S DREAM. By William Shakespeare. Magazine form edition. Wright's Shakespeare Library, Chicago, 35 cents.

An edition of the classic at a price within reach of all. Authentic text, lavish illustrations, good paper, designed to sell on the magazine stands.

— Tampa Morning Tribune.

• A de luxe edition.

• Twenty-five exquisite illustrations.

• Complete and most authentic text.

• Large, graceful type.

• Ample artistic margins.

• Good book paper.

• Modernized spelling and punctuation.

• Attractive cover design.

• Only 35 cents.

• A beautiful Shakespeare you will be proud to own.

A Midsummer Moth's Dream

WRIGHT'S SHAKESPEARE UBKAHY

Illustrated Edition

Now on sole

35c

Wright's Shakespeare Library

840 North Michigan Avenue Chicago. Illinois, U. S.A.

[THE END]
