============================================================
Weird Tales
Volume , Number 
Date: March 1925
============================================================
============================================================
TABLE OF CONTENTS

  1. "the contents into the sink" by Into a
  2. "vial" by Black Sigurd took a pinch of
  3. "was certainly strychnin" by When the
  4. "land" by Soon a power boat put out from
  5. "and put it back" by But in the afternoon
  6. "into the hands of his only son" by Black
  7. "father’s big house" by Alaskan winter
  8. "fancies of his imagination" by The face
  9. "from the house" by Returning aboard
  10. "fiercer gales and hurricanes" by There
  11. "world of snow and granite" by Black
  12. "he could get no more" by This was a
  13. "wrecked nerves" by In his weakening
  14. "are puzzling questions" by Yet many
  15. "self at least one night" by Gradually it
  16. "day, I married" by Then my troubles
  17. "ideal mate" by Yet that single fault was
  18. "most annoying" by Lucetta was strongly
============================================================
============================================================
THE CONTENTS INTO THE SINK
by Into a
============================================================

12 Detective GET these

Great Mystery Stories

The Valley of Missing Men

—Read how Parkinson dis¬ covered this baffling mys¬ tery — a story pulsating with hair-raising incidents.

The Mystery at Eagle Lodge—Soul-gripEffiSSK—

124HM1

—l

Y°U arc

i mwm

S5wsS?«

o


Are You Eager to Become Rich?

M ONEY is not the only kind of wealth. Mental riches are as important to the welfare of mankind as the piling up of gold. Such riches can be acquired only by acquaintance with the very best of contemporary literature.

No magazine in the world prints so many stories of absolute literary value as does WEIKD TALES.

$75.00 Worth $ 0.50 for &

A TWELVE-MONTH subscription to WEIRD TALES offers you more than you could buy, if published separately, for at least thirty times the price. The next twelve issues of this most unusual magazine promise you a quantity, quality and variety of in¬ teresting entertainment and information that will supply you with many evenings of pleasure.

Each issue contains from fifteen to twenty-five short stories, novels and novelettes by the best authors. Compared with the value, the price is ridiculously small—over 250 stories for $2.50 figures less than 1 cent per story of fascinating—mysterious—thrilling—gripping

Subscribe now while our address is before you. Don’t put it off another day!

Use the coupon

317 Baldwin Bldg., Indianapolis, Ind.

Gentlemen: Enclosed find $-for 1 year’s subscription to WEIRD TALES

to begin with the_number.

Address

Author of "The Valley of Teehee men”

also carried a heavy amount of equipT HE giant tiger roused from its slumbers in one of the small thickets that grew in places on the face of the rock-strewn plain that extended toward the distant jungle. It was one of the last of its species in the world. Could a naturalist have surveyed it in safety, he would have classified it as a saber-tooth, a variety generally conceded to be extinct.

Something had disturbed the crea¬ ture. It raised to its haunches and turned its great yellow eyes toward the jungle. It stared for a time and then resumed its former attitude of ease. For a minute it reclined thus, and then it sprang to all four feet. The long tail switched nervously from side to side. The eyes of the beast fastened now upon what before had been brought to its attention through the sense of smell.

A small procession of men had emerged from the jungle border and was marching toward the wall of the mountain, which upreared its colossal bulk a quarter of a mile from the spot where the tiger had been resting in the thicket. There were seven men in the party. Four were white, and three were natives carrying large packs be¬ longing to the others. The white men

“I am willing to stake everything, ” announced one of the men, pausing and gazing toward the distant wall of rock confronting their progress, “on a bet that we are not far from the entrance that leads through the hol¬ low volcanic mountain into the Valley of Teeheemen.”

“Why are you so positive, Hol¬ ton?” queried Herman Van Otter, the largest man of the party. “What makes you so certain?”

“Simply this,” returned the man addressed as Holton, “when you and Benton, with Virginia Hart and the native force sent to accompany us from the city of Teeheemen to the coast, emerged from the exit of the valley through the hollow mountain, I called your attention to five great natural pillars of stone. They were standing at regular intervals and re¬ sembled at a distance the ruins of an entrance to some mighty temple.”

“I recall that,” interrupted Bruce Benton, “now that you speak of it.”

“Well,” Holton continued, “if you will look far to the right, you will see the same five pillars standing before the mountain wall. The entrance into


the valley must be abont a quarter of a mile this side.”

The fourth white man of the party spoke.

“Then your land of fable lies just before us beyond the wall of the mountain yonder?” he questioned.

“Yes,” Holton replied, “and it is there we may hope to find your daughter if the information you have obtained is correct.”

“I hope so, I hope so,” returned the other.

T he four white men had come into the far western interior of Brazil on a unique expedition. Since their former experiences five years before in the Valley of Teeheemen, which they were now seeking, they had been widely separated.

Captain Holton had become at¬ tached to a special mission sent by the United States government to Rus¬ sia. While a member of the party he became intimately acquainted with Roderick Sharon, a member of the diplomatic division of the mission.

The latter twenty years before had been left a widower, at the birth of his only daughter, Rosalie Sharon. Upon him had devolved the rearing of the child, and he had accomplished her upbringing with wonderful effi¬ ciency. The girl had finished high school in her fourteenth year, and four years later graduated with hon¬ ors from a state university. She in¬ herited a roving disposition. While accompanying an expedition doing re¬ search work in western Brazil, she was kidnaped by a band of savages that attacked the party.

At that time her father was still in Russia. Holton had severed his con¬ nection with the mission, and after traveling through various parts of Europe he returned to the United States and settled at Trenton, New Jersey.

Rosalie Sharon was the only mem¬ ber of the research expedition to be

carried away. The others returned later to the United States, and it was from them that the girl’s father ob¬ tained a description of the men who had attacked the party and carried his daughter away into captivity.

A few months prior to the time nar¬ rated in the opening, Holton pub¬ lished a story regarding the adven¬ tures of himself, Bruce Benton, Her¬ man Van Otter and Virginia Hart in the Valley of Teeheemen in the official publication of one of the national re¬ search organizations.

Roderick Sharon saw the article, and the tale aroused another spark of hope in his heart regarding the possi¬ bility of again finding his daughter. He had made several trips into the wilds of South America but had re¬ turned disheartened from the last one, abandoning all hope of ever finding Rosalie in that great maze of untraveled wilderness. The reading of Hol¬ ton’s article rekindled his hopes. Through the publishers, he located Holton and heard from him the story and description of the men of Teehee¬ men and the men of Morop.

It was Holton’s description of the men of Morop in the article that aroused Sharon’s attention, for he de¬ clared that the report furnished him by members of the expedition who were with Rosalie when she was kid¬ naped was very similar. There were also savages of another description with the Morop men.

Sharon had offered a monetary proposition to Holton to accompany him in the search for the Valley of Teeheemen. The latter rejected the offer but agreed to help Sharon. Her¬ man Van Otter was communicated with, and he also welcomed the op¬ portunity to engage in search for ad¬ venture in the weird country.

Holton made a trip to the home of Benton in Illinois. Virginia Hart, now the wife of Benton, had agreed to his accompanying the three again into the South American wilds when she

THE LAST OP THE TEEHEEMEN

learned the story of Rosalie Sharon’s disappearance.

T hree weeks had elapsed since the three boarded a United States Shipping Board vessel and started on the trip. Benton, before making the start, had visited the manufac¬ turers of his patent bombs and had brought a dozen of the high power ex¬ plosives with him. Through the jun¬ gle fastnesses and over mountain tor¬ rents they had taken their way, until they began arguing that they had about completed their journey to the Valley of Teeheemen.

With the last statement of Sharon, who had joined but little in the con¬ versation during the trip into the in¬ terior, the march toward the moun¬ tain wall was resumed.

The line of march led straight to¬ ward the thicket where the great tiger was waiting. As the seven men ap¬ proached, the animal slunk into a crouching position. The long tail lashed back and forth at intervals, but the great body remained rigid in its position.

When the party had advanced to within fifty yards of the thicket on the plain, Holton, who was leading the procession, again halted and mopped the sweat from his brow.

“This will be a good place to camp for the night,” he suggested. “We can find the opening into the hollow mountain in the morning and make our entrance into the city of Teehee¬ men tomorrow.”

“That’s the most sensible thing you have suggested today,” laughed Ot¬ ter. “ My feet are as sore as a camel’s that has crossed the Sahara.”

“This is as good a place as any,” said Benton, throwing down his pack and sitting down on a rock near by. The others followed his example.

“We must have fire for the night to cook a bite,” remarked Otter after

the seven had remained seated for a time. “There’s brush aplenty in the thicket yonder.”

Suiting his actions to his intentions, Otter left the others and started to¬ ward the thicket without his rifle. The great cat drew its ears against its head and prepared for the leap when the man should come close enough.

Otter, walking toward the thicket, suddenly paused as if sensing the dan¬ ger that lay ahead. A movement of the bush threshed by the great tiger’s tail attracted his attention. He began walking backward toward the others, keeping his eyes riveted on the thicket

Holton noted his actions, and he and Benton were quick to sense that something was wrong. They both grasped their rifles and rose to their feet. As they did so the great tiger rushed in a charge from the brush patch and crouched to leap upon Ot¬ ter, who had turned and fled from its onslaught.

Holton’s rifle cracked as the lus¬ trous body of the great cat came sud¬ denly into view. Benton’s weapon spoke at the same time, and the two bullets, finding their marks in differ¬ ent parts of the animal’s body, served to halt its onslaught upon the defense¬ less Otter.

Holton and Benton poured a volley of shots into the beast and the animal, after a wild clawing at the rocks, opened its jaws for the last time in the agony of death.

When its struggles had ceased the men advanced to view their kill.

“A begri!” Benton exclaimed.

“Yes,” Holton agreed, “but he’s traveling outside of his environment. He must have come through the hol¬ low mountain to this place.”

“Hardly possible, if the men of Teeheemen saw him first. He would have been obliged to enter the city some time when the inhabitants were

“E“I

relative to what X believe to be the

KSKssa

ins#!!

SE—HSi

CSS MUd””" °“ ,h "

girl would have but little cl

‘That is one of the factors that no more, then will I become the laughHsfSil

Inss

B °“Pm going* to'reat it with sc

afSsSEK

ts.'sitssxsssiz

»** stsiis

that led to the rocky plain the artificial illumination.

mss&m

Mmm

SiSis

b HSS -3

WmS motop n °

piInto the darkness the small proeesthT rays oThZ^JhUtfd uponTthle rocky floor of the place.

ara»a%su E"?^£tLBSS “ ^ssszsxss

THE LAST OP THE TEEHEEMEN

men again spoke, and the writhing white snake unwound its coils from aboAt the altar in the agonies of death.

The reports of the rifles reverbe¬ rated through the adjoining corridors of the deserted temple.

“That ought to attract the atten¬ tion of any residents who may still be here,” Otter remarked.

“Strange that we never observed any of the reptiles during our former visit here,” said Holton.

“There were great stretches of the country that we never saw,” said Benton. “Since the city has been de¬ serted, the reptiles have come into possession. What has become of the people of Duros and Gomo? Could they have migrated into the lands of the world outside of the Valley of Teeheemen?”

Holton shook his head.

"It is a great mystery that a race of people should abandon their city and suddenly take their departure. There was some reason, but what it could have been I cannot even sugThe attention of the party was quickly directed from the writhing snake to a roar from one of the ad¬ joining corridors. The noise was oc¬ casioned by the flight of birds whose wings were fanning the air of the place with great velocity. Three of the creatures flew from one of the corridors into the sacrificial chamber. Benton fired at one of the great birds, which was larger than an eagle. Its head was as large as a croquet ball, and about as spherical. A short, pow¬ erful beak protruded from the ball¬ shaped head at a point between the eyes, which were set in the forefront of the creature’s skull. Benton’s shot missed.

Holton fired at the three, and one of them fell to the floor of the cham¬ ber, where it gave vent to a succession of rapid, shrieking cries. The other two birds flapped their way into the

corridor again and joined with scores of others of their kind in answering the weird shrieking of their wounded companion on the floor of the sacri¬ ficial chamber.

Holton fired a second shot through the head of the bird, and the members of the party gathered about and ob¬ served the creature. Its wings were about six feet from tip to tip, and in¬ stead of being feathered were covered with a skinlike formation much after the nature of the common bat.

“The city of Teeheemen is certain¬ ly without human inhabitants, ” Hol¬ ton remarked, “or such creatures as these would never be in evidence.”

“And if it is deserted, as is prob¬ able,” Benton conjectured, “the chances for bagging the last of the teeheemen will undoubtedly be first class, for this city must have been abandoned almost immediately fol¬ lowing our departure from the valley five years ago.”

“True,” Holton agreed, “but poor old Rod’s daughter is not in the Val¬ ley of Teeheemen.”

Sharon, while the other members of the party were viewing the ball¬ headed bird, had remained studying the construction of the sacrificial chamber near the altar, where the white serpent still coiled and un¬ coiled in the death throes so slowly communicated to its entire body.

T he wanderings through the tem¬ ple were continued, until the men stood at the front exit leading into one of the deserted streets. They emerged into the sunshine again and walked through the streets. Other buildings were entered. The same quiet and lack of evidence of human occupation were encountered every¬ where. The party, headed by Holton, walked slowly toward the point where King Urlus had lived in his palace of hewn stone. The approach to the place revealed that the grounds about the palace had been unkept for sev12


eral years. The trunks of the great trees which grew in the yard before the structure of the former king, were overgrown with wild vines that had gained a start during the long absence of the ground keepers of former days.

“What have we over there?” sud¬ denly queried Otter, pointing toward a group of trees to the right of the palace. The other members of the group noted at the same time the ob¬ ject that had attracted his attention.

A creature resembling a man or ape in body had run rapidly from the foot of a tree where it had been re¬ clining. With the agility of a mon¬ key it climbed the trunk of another tree and disappeared in the heavy foliage overhead.

“We’ll take a look at that boy,” suggested Holton, advancing toward the tree into which the creature had disappeared.

As the men advanced, one of the guides suddenly issued a warning call. The shaft of an arrow flitted past the heads of Benton and Otter and lodged in the ground near the feet of Sharon.

Holton raised his rifle and fired at the point in the foliage where he had noticed the arrow emerge. A heavy body came tumbling from the branches, and finally fell to the earth, where, after a few convulsive shud¬ ders, it remained motionless.

“Don’t advance too quickly,” Ben¬ ton advised. “There may be others of his kind in the same tree.”

The group stood studying the situ¬ ation for a few minutes and then ad¬ vanced to inspect the animal that Hol¬ ton had brought down with his lucky shot. Exclamations of astonishment burst from the members of the party when they paused by the object stretched on the ground.

“Would you call this a human?” asked Holton, turning to Benton.

“It doesn’t appear so, though it is a biped and walks and runs upright, ’ ’

Benton replied. “It has an order of intelligence, for it has fashioned a bow and shot at us when we ap¬ proached the place in which it sought to hide away. On its feet, you ob¬ serve, are three toes exactly like those of a human being. The place where the big toe and the little toe should be are occupied by powerful claws like a bear’s. The same is true of the hands. There are three middle fin¬ gers and two outer claws in place of the thumb and small finger on each

“That explains the ability to climb the way he did,” interposed Otter. “His face looks more like a bulldog, only the hair is lacking, and instead of the bulldog’s ears, he has ears shaped like those of a human being.”

“This may be the elue to an ex¬ planation of the deserted city of Teeheemen,” Holton suggested.

Sharon, who had taken no part in the conversation, approached closely to the creature lying on the ground. He examined it minutely, bending down and taking hold of one of the claws growing where the normal fin¬ ger should appear. When he arose from the position, his expression had changed.

‘ ‘ Gentlemen, ’ ’ he said, in great ex¬ citement, “this creature answers the description furnished to me of some of the savages who carried away my daughter in the wilds of this country. The description was that of men with faces resembling bull¬ dogs and having the ears of human beings. As to the hands and feet there was no description furnished.”

“I am going to preserve these hands and feet,” Holton remarked, drawing his knife. “ I have a powder in one of the packs that will dry them and keep them perfectly. ’ ’

Holton began removing the hands and feet, and after completing the work he packed the articles in the preservative and added them to one of the packs carried by the guides.

THE LAST OP THE TEEHEEMEN


Holton had just completed his un¬ pleasant task when the air was filled with wild cries. Prom the trees in the palace grounds, scores of the dog¬ faced savages dropped to the earth, and brandishing bows and spears, bore down upon the members of the expedition.

“nPHE woods are full of them!”

Otter exclaimed, bringing his rifle to his shoulder and opening fire. Benton, Holton and Sharon imitated his example, and a dozen of the crea¬ tures went down before the rush to¬ ward the members of the expedition was halted.

The white men ceased firing for a moment until they saw the savages again start to advance, when they re¬ opened fire. After a half dozen more of the dog men went down, the re¬ mainder turned and fled from the gar¬ den of the palace along the streets ap¬ proaching the place from the opposite direction.

“We never saw anybody like that here,” remarked Otter, refilling the magazine of his rifle, “when we were enjoying our last pleasure trip in this locality. They won’t be eager to taste bullets again for a time.”

“We may expect to be bothered from time to time by such creatures,” Holton remarked. “If it were not my desire to seek farther for Sharon’s daughter, I would be content to leave this place without trying to bag the remaining teeheemen if it still lives here. Such creatures as we have just encountered may drop upon us by hundreds from any of the forest fast¬ nesses, which we shall be obliged to penetrate in our quest for the beast teeheemen. They can overpower us by sheer numbers and take us into captivity or butcher us, as they may see fit.”

With the departure of the dog¬ faced men, the members of the expedi¬ tion resumed their travel through the

streets toward the outer wall enclos¬ ing the deserted city.

The entrance was arrived at and the stone sliding gate was half open. Through the passage the party filed and marched toward the river that flowed into the city. Along the hanks of the stream they continued until the almost treeless plain was traversed and the edge of the dense jungle was encountered.

“Well build a nest in the trees to¬ night after our fashion when first we came to this place,” Holton sugThe noonday lunch was prepared under one of the great trees near the forest border, and the party, after eating, rested for a time in the shade. After another hour the march through the jungle was resumed.

Late in the afternoon Holton called a halt and suggested that they pre¬ pare camp for the night.

“We have no special destination at the present time,” he stated, “and no definite object other than to kill the last of the teeheemen and if pos¬ sible find some trace of Rosalie Shar¬ on. We may as well build us a good nest in one of the big trees and oper¬ ate from this as a base in our quest for the prehistoric beast. We can make excursions into the surrounding forest and still have reasonable access to the exit from the valley in case things become too threatening from sources as yet unknown.

The members of the party threw their packs to the earth, and the sev¬ eral axes carried by the guides were utilized in preparing material for the nest in one of the trees high above the ground.

A grapevine ladder was prepared by Benton with the assistance of one of the guides, and Otter, after consid¬ erable effort, climbed into the tree and fastened one end of the ladder.

“I envy those dog-faced hoodlums their claws when it comes to a job like this,” he remarked, as he com14


pleted the task of securing the upper end of the ladder.

The poles for the base of the plat¬ form were drawn upward into the tree and placed across two limbs that extended horizontally from the trunk. Upon the base thus fashioned, the other poles were placed and secured in position.

When the platform had been com¬ pleted, a fire was built at the base of the tree, of dry wood obtained from the surrounding thickets, and the evening repast was prepared. Fol¬ lowing a long chat regarding the mys¬ terious disappearance of the people of the city of Teeheemcn, the four men and the three guides climbed in¬ to the quarters prepared in the great

T he moon was at its full and rose above the jungle fastnesses short¬ ly after the members of the party had retired to the platform. Holton was just dozing off when an unearthly bel¬ low reverberated through the jungle, awakening echoes from the far-away hills of the plain. Holton rose from his reclining position, and the other members also sat up. Again the great beast of the jungle called.

“Teeheemen,” said Holton. “The god of old Walum and Urlus has sur¬ vived his worshipers. The beast still lives, and I may get the chance to take his carcass to the United States. ’ ’ “And he hasn’t lost any of his singing ability,” Otter added.

A silence ensued for a space of five minutes. There was a heavy move¬ ment in the jungle thickets below as a great beast crashed through. The men on the platform in the tree peered downward into the recesses of the jungle below, dimly lighted by the moon. A tremendous bellow again sounded, its notes sending the blood of the members of the expedition coursing excitedly through their

“He is calling for his mate, who is no more,” Benton suggested.

“I am going to risk a shot at the creature, ’ ’ Holton remarked, pointing his rifle toward the monster dimly outlined in one of the open spaces in the jungle growth below. “I may never get another. A chance hit may bring him down.”

The report of Holton’s rifle broke the stillness that had ensued follow¬ ing the last call of the jungle beast.

As the crack of the rifle sounded, the creature standing in the dimly lighted thicket below gave a tremen¬ dous bellow of anger. It rushed backward and forward in the under¬ growth, seeking the enemy that had so suddenly attacked it. Holton fired again and the bullet struck its mark, for the great beast increased its exhi¬ bition of anger. It finally decided, in its instinctive mentality, the source from which the attack had come. It rushed with the velocity of a locomo¬ tive toward the trunk of the tree in which the platform had been con¬ structed. The impact was terrific, and the great tree was shaken to its topmost branches. Again and again the monster charged the tree, its at¬ tacks threatening to dislodge the men on the platform. They were obliged to cling to overhanging branches to maintain their positions in safety.

Finding its attack futile, the mon¬ ster finally desisted, and roaring tre¬ mendously it raced through the thick¬ ets and disappeared into the jungle fastnesses.

“That may be my last chance to kill the creature,” Holton lamented.

“I’m not sorry if it is,” Otter re¬ marked, taking a survey of the condi¬ tion of the platform. “That devil nearly dislodged all of the poles in this roost, and us with them.”

“Your first shot apparently stung him,” said Benton. “Your second only added to his rage.”

THE LAST OF THE TEEHEEMEN



T he next morning, the party, fol¬ lowing breakfast, took up a line of exploration that brought them to the River of Teeheemen. They fol¬ lowed the river, which at this point flowed between two lines of bluffs. When they arrived at the stream, the men stood at the edge and peered down at the water racing along its rockbound course some two hundred feet below.

As they continued along the high bank, they suddenly came upon a cultivated area bordering the edge of the river.

“Here is some evidence of civiliza¬ tion!” Holton exclaimed, pointing to the stretch of freshly stirred soil, from which tiny plants were growing at regular intervals. “ This resembles the old fields near the deserted city of Teeheemen, when they were in a stage of cultivation five years ago. ’ ’ “The cultivators must be near at hand,” said Benton.

“Look in the distance,” Otter com¬ manded, pointing toward a point be¬ fore them. “There are some of the

The others looked in the direction indicated by Otter, and observed an unusual sight. A man was hitched to a crude plow, which he was drawing across the field. He was moving to¬ ward the party, and two other men were following after the plow.

“Let us secrete ourselves in that thicket there so that we may observe the actions of these people,” Holton advised. “They are coming our way.”

A closer observation revealed a half dozen other men walking toward the place where the party went into hidHolton turned to the others and in a warning tone remarked, “They are dog-faced men.”

“All but the one who is pulling the plow,” Benton corrected him. “He

is much taller and more powerful than the dog-faced savages.”

As Benton spoke, the puller of the plow, who had approached to within a hundred yards of the edge of the field where the members of the party were hiding, stopped. One of the other men close to the plow struck the man hitched to the instrument a blow with the spear he was carrying in his

A tragic drama quickly occurred in the field before the party. As the dog-faced savage struck the large slave, the latter, with a quick move¬ ment, grasped the spear as its shaft struck against his back. With a mighty effort he tore the weapon from his dog-faced guard and with one thrust plunged the weapon through the creature’s abdomen.

The slave then tore himself loose from the harness of the plow and ran toward the edge of the field and the thicket that adjoined it. His line of retreat led directly toward Holton and his companions. The second slave-driver gave a loud call to the other six men, who had not been ob¬ serving what was going on. At his call for aid, they ran in swift pursuit of the fleeing slave.

“Give that fellow another spear and he could slay that entire bunch of dog-faces,” remarked Otter.

Benton, who had been watching with intense interest, suddenly raised his gun to his shoulder. In the unfor¬ gotten language of the men of Techeemen he loudly called, “Run, Duros, run! We are this way to help

The fugitive heard the voice and was puzzled, fearing apparently a ruse to lead him into some trap. When four rifles spoke almost in unison, he altered his course and sped toward the spot where the rifle smoke rose above the thicket.

As the dog-faced men in pursuit saw four of their number fall life¬ less to the earth, the others halted,



stood for an instant irresolute, then fled in the opposite direction, while Duros rushed into the thicket and fell to the earth in the midst of the rescu¬ ing party.

“r-pvHE white gods are back!” Duros

A exclaimed, as he arose and ex¬ tended his hands to Benton and the

“Where have you been for the past few years?” asked Holton. “What has become of the people of Teehee-

“ Duros will tell the white gods briefly,” explained the big olive-col¬ ored chieftain; “then we must get away from this locality, for the men of Ugu, the king of the men who were pursuing Duros, will return in great numbers to recapture Duros and the white gods who have helped him to

“The men of Ugu came from, Duros does not know where. They came one night into the city of Teeheemen in multitudes many times larger than the men of Teeheemen. They entered the houses in the night time and seised the people of the city as they lay sleeping, never dreaming of the strange fate that was to befall them. We were carried away as a nation in one night and confined in the caves that are so numerous in the great bluffs that wall in the River of Tee¬ heemen for a number of miles in this locality.

“The people of Ugu are cannibals, and during the past four years they have lived upon the flesh of the cap¬ tives they took in the city of Teeheemcn. We have been kept in the caves or herded in the open plains at times much as the cattle which once you told Duros furnished the most of the meat of the white gods.

“Ten thousand of the men and women of Teeheemen have died in this manner to furnish flesh for the followers of Ugu. The king and his chief captains have sold the flesh of

my people to their subjects. Another ten thousand have died as a result of their close confinement in the caves. At present there are not more than five thousand of my people living as slaves and food for the terrible men

“Tell us about Gomo,” urged Ben¬ ton. “Does he still survive?”

“Yes,” replied Duros. “The old fellow was sent, like myself, as a slave into the fields. The outdoor life has kept us in good condition.”

“Where do the subjects of Ugu live?” queried Otter.

“They inhabit the caves along the river bluffs. Sometimes many thou¬ sands of them live in one great cave. The king and his chief captains in¬ habit one of the greatest caves. In the cave of the king, I have been told, a beautiful woman with a white skin is kept captive. She was brought in¬ to the valley by a raiding party that ventured from the valley by the exit from the temple of Teeheemen through the hollow mountain.”

“That’s your daughter, Sharon!” Holton exclaimed, turning to the quiet man, who did not understand the language in which Duros spoke. “This native tells us that she is con¬ fined in a cave by the king of the dog¬ faced people. ’ ’

The fighting spirit that had been Sharon’s a few years before came back and his hopeless manner changed to excited interest.

“Ask him,” he requested, “if he has ever seen her and how she is.”

Holton put the questions and Du¬ ros shook his head.

“I have never seen her,” he re¬ plied. “I have learned that such a woman was there from hearing the men of Ugu talk about her. It would be possible for some of us to enter the cave at night and find the place, al¬ though the men of Ugu guard her carefully. There are times when they take her into the forest or allow her to walk near the edge of the river.”

THE LAST OP THE TEEHEEMEN

“If we could discover her at such a time,” remarked Benton, “we might rescue her from such a gang. If we knew just where she is con¬ fined, what would there be to prevent us from bombing the opening of some of the great caverns where thousands of the dog-faced people are asleep at night? In that manner, we could de¬ stroy this nation of cannibals, for they would not be able to regain the outer world, and death would ensue from starvation. In that manner, the people of Duros might be restored to the ownership of the valley and re¬ turn to the deserted city of Teehee-

“We must be moving from here,” Otter suddenly warned, pointing to¬ ward the fields in the distance.

The others quickly realized the truth of his assertion, for several thousand of the dog-faced men were coming at a rapid pace across the open space.

The members of the expedition re¬ tired hurriedly into the edge of the adjoining forest and were soon swal¬ lowed up in the dense jungle growth. The march for their camp of the pre¬ ceding evening was continued until the place was reached.

Upon arrival at the tree where the platform was constructed, a council of war was held. It was agreed that Holton, accompanied by Duros, should go on a reconnoitering expedi¬ tion that night.

W hen night fell upon the forest, Duros and Holton returned to the place where the former had made his break for liberty.

“The first of the caves is a short walk from here,” Duros informed Holton. “Some of them are reached by climbing ladders that have been built to their entrances by the men of Ugu. In the first cave there are confined about five hundred of my people. The entrance is guarded by a

number of the enemy. It is my plan to strangle the guard at the mouth of the cave and then dispatch the other guards as they lie sleeping. ’ ’

The two made their way down the face of one of the cliffs toward the lower banks of the river. When they had gained the lower levels, they fol¬ lowed along the edge of the water until Duros halted close to the face of one of the bluffs that towered several hundred feet into the air.

“The mouth of the first cave is close by,” Duros warned in a low voice. “The guard stands at the en¬ trance. Duros will leap upon him.”

Holton remained standing, at the admonition of Duros, and the latter slunk away in the shadow of the bluff. The moon was again lighting the valley and the operations of the two were more liable to discovery.

Duros crept to the entrance of the cavern. He paused for a few minutes, breathing softly lest he should at¬ tract the attention of the dog-faced savage standing before him. Having satisfied himself that the other guards were asleep within the entrance of the cavern, Duros wriggled carefully toward the back of the savage. With a leap like that of a gigantic cat he sprang upon the guard and throttled him before he could cry out. Duros bore his victim to the earth, and the keen knife with which Holton had furnished him made one deep thrust. Duros did not relinquish his strangle hold until he was satisfied that the savage was incapable of making any outcry. Then he continued to crawl into the cavern. A small fire was burning in the interior and Duros noted the five guards asleep on the floor.

The Teeheemen chieftain grasped the spear which he had taken from the outer guard. With the butt end he crushed the skull of the first sleeping savage. Moving quickly to the second and third he repeated with terrific force his skull-crushing efforts. The



fourth guard stirred as Duros ap¬ proached him and arose partly to his feet when the point of the spear was thrust through his vitals. The last guard had gained his feet and drew back his spear to ward off the attack of the Teeheemen chief. Duros leapt toward him, and before the spear could be hurled he had caught the wrist of the hand holding the weapon. Again the knife was used with deadly

Duros paused before the barrier of stone that had been constructed across the opening of the cavern to hold the captives back. He hammered and pried at the great stone doorway, but his efforts were insufficient to remove the obstacle. He stole from the place and returned to Holton, where he re¬ ported the success of his undertaking thus far.

The two again returned, and with Holton’s assistance the stone was re¬ leased from its groove and partially slipped backward. The two stepped into the cavern, and Holton turned his flashlight into the reeking air of the place. Several hundred men and women were lying on the cavern floor.

The movement of the stone door had disturbed the slumber of a num¬ ber of the people of Teeheemen and they sat up and turned their haggard eyes wonderingly toward the rays of light that flashed into the place.

“Men of Teeheemen,” spoke Du¬ ros, “the hour of rescue is here. Arise and take your way to the old city of our existence. Go quietly, except those whom Duros shall select. One of the white gods has returned to assist Du¬ ros in giving you your freedom. The other white gods are in the forest and will help to save the others who are still in the prison caves.”

Holton stood and watched the ema¬ ciated throng of some five hundred leave the cave. Duros selected six of the most powerful. When the oth¬ ers had filed from the cavern, Duros addressed them in a guarded tone.

‘ ‘ Take the weapons of the dead men of Ugu in the outer entrance of the cavern,” he ordered. “Tonight we will release from the prison caves the remnant of the men of Teeheemen.”

Duros, Holton and the six men left the cavern and made their way to the mouth of the next prison cave. Duros led the attack and throttled the outer guard, while his selected men rushed into the interior and with little difficulty dispatched a dozen guards, who awoke from their slumbers too late to resist the skull¬ crushing blows from the spear butts.

The stone doorway was removed from the closed areaway and the sur¬ prized sleepers within were aroused and told of what was taking place. The cavern was a large one, and nearly a thousand prisoners—men, and many women with children— filed from the foul-smelling place and marched silently toward the distant city of Teeheemen.

Duros, as the throng filed from the inner chamber, selected a dozen of the strongest and armed them with the weapons of the slain guards.

The third prison cave was taken in the same manner as the preceding ones, the best warriors selected and armed with the weapons of the slain guards of the men of Ugu. The fourth and fifth were surprized and taken at the same time. Duros detailed some of the best of the men to go with Holton and locate the cave, and in this manner the release work was speeded up.

I N the fields adjoining the bluffs of the river, a long line of fugitives straggled toward the jungle border and through its depths toward the de¬ serted city of Teeheemen. As they went, the men cut poles and began to fashion spear shafts and bows for weapons.

Along the bluffs, the followers of Duros and Holton continued their work of emptying the prison caves.

THE LAST OP THE TEEHEEMEN


“The last cavern is some distance from here,” Duros explained. “It is the largest yet, and more than a thousand of my people are confined at nights within its depths. To the south of the last prison cavern are hundreds of small caves and the great cavern where King Ugu and his cap¬ tains hold forth.”

The march for the last cavern was begun, and Holton warned Duros that the effort must be made hurried¬ ly, as it would not be a great time until dawn.

The last cavern was reached, and instead of one guard on watch there were three. They sounded a warning as Duros and his followers attacked them. Some twenty-five other guards were stationed in this cave, and they rushed to the aid of the other three. A terrific fight ensued within the re¬ cesses of the cavern. The followers of Duros by now numbered more than one hundred. Holton got into the fight with his automatic, fearing that the report of the rifle might be so loud as to carry outside of the cavern depths and arouse others of the sleep¬ ing dog men in their near-by caves.

Three of the men of Ugu went to the floor before the shots of Holton’s weapon, and Duros with his spear hurled one after another of his as¬ sailants into the air from the point of the weapon. The other warriors of Teeheemen disposed of the remainder. The stone door was rolled aside and the prisoners began filing out in si¬ lence, following the announcement and warning of Duros. The latter ac¬ costed one of the last men to leave the place.

“■Where is Gomot” he asked.

“Gomo has been taken to act as a servant to the white lady in the cav¬ ern of King Ugu,” replied the man. “The followers of the king have be¬ come too lazy to wait upon the white

queen, and Gomo was drafted for

The man passed on and Duros ap¬ proached Holton and informed him what the occupant of the prison had told.

“I am in favor of remaining in this locality in hiding,” said Holton. ‘ ‘ There is a possibility that we may be able to remain in this cavern unde¬ tected for twenty-four hours. I un¬ derstand that the guards have sole charge of the prisons to which they are stationed, and that they take turns in keeping watch at night, but that they never are replaced by others except when they take the prisoners into the fields to work them or herd them in the open air and sunshine. It may be a day before someone dis¬ covers what has taken place. By re¬ maining here we might gain the op¬ portunity to view Sharon’s daughter as she walks under the guard of the

“Duros is willing,” the native agreed. “We can kill any who enter or pass this place and hide their bodies from view inside this cavern.”

The intention of the two men was communicated to the other warriors, and with a brandishing of the spears they had taken from their dead ene¬ mies they indicated their willingness to fight with Holton and Duros to the death.

The dawn was near at hand. In another hour the scene was lighted by the first rays of the rising sun. The call of multitudes of aquatic fowls sounded from the river as they rose in flight from the surface of the stream.

For two hours the party remained in the cavern, Duros and Holton keep¬ ing a sharp lookout from the en¬ trance. Their attention was directed later to the sound of voices approach¬ ing along the bluff from the south in the direction of the caves of the Ugu settlement.

T WO more hours to live!

The thought of his approach¬ ing death did not seem to cause John Castle much concern. Indeed, he fondled almost lovingly the cap¬ sule that contained the deadly drug. To die—and then to live again! For countless centuries the wisest men of all lands had vainly sought the secret he possessed. He held the world in the hollow of his hand! Yet he was barely thirty. All the years of middle age stretched ahead in which to enjoy his fame.

On the work-bench before him were the two large glass jars containing the chemicals he had mixed with his own hands. In one corner of the labora¬ tory stood the machine which would transform these chemicals into the life-giving vapor. Upon these inani¬ mate, unfeeling properties he must pin his faith; must launch out upon the Great Adventure dependent upon these alone to prove that his logic vras not at fault, that he was really master of eternal life.

He realized, of course, that there was a possibility of failure, and he had laid his plans accordingly. He was carrying life insurance to the amount of ten thousand dollars. The powerful drug the capsule in his hand

contained was another of his own formulae and would leave absolutely no trace that he was a suicide.

The note to Montague White was already written. He knew that he could trust White to carry out his instructions to the letter. He had grown up with “Monty” from knickerbocker days. He held the friend¬ ship of this man next only to that of his wife and little ones. Playmates at school; chums in college; pals now. Although the business world had claimed Monty, he still dropped in for an occasional confab with the scien¬ tist, and under the latter’s tutelage had learned enough of laboratory methods to make Castle feel that he could safely trust the project to him. Besides, the letter explained every¬ thing so clearly that it left no loop¬ hole for any possible error.

Castle glanced once more at the clock upon the mantelpiece. There was still time for one last test before he died. Not that he feared anything might go wrong, but he felt that he needed the added assurance that such an experiment would give him. After all, it was a momentous step he was about to take.

He wheeled the cumbersome ma¬ chine from its place in the corner and


connected it to the socket in the chan¬ delier. He measured a small quantity of each of the chemicals from the glass jars and emptied them into the bag¬ shaped body of the machine. Then he switched on the current and waited until time enough had elapsed to va¬ porize the chemicals.

He crossed to a crate at the other end of the room, and from it brought the cold, starlc body of a guinea pig. Two days before, he had put this an¬ imal to death by a small portion of the drug the capsule contained. He wheeled the machine up to the work¬ bench and placed the body of the ani¬ mal beside it.

Three long rubber tubes dangled from the grotesque machine. John Castle inserted one of these in each of the guinea-pig’s nostrils. He gently pried open the little animal’s mouth, and placed the end of the third be¬ tween its teeth. Last of all, he turned the stop-cock that released the vapor, and anxiously watched the result of his experiment.

One minute — two — three—four— five—ah!

His keen eyes detected the scarcely perceptible pulsation of the animal’s body as the heart began to beat, once more. Stronger and stronger grew the throbbings, till at length, with a tiny frightened squeal, the resurrec¬ ted guinea pig jumped from the work¬ bench and scurried across the floor.

A hundred times in the last few' weeks John Castle had performed this miracle—a hundred different animals had been slaughtered by him and then granted a new lease of life. His was not an idle dream. But one step re¬ mained, and that step he was now ready to take: to prove that this same new' lease of life could be given to

Smiling complacently, John Castle locked the door of the laboratory be¬ hind him and made his way to his bedroom. Once there he made his usual preparations for retiring, drew

the covers snugly about him and, still smiling, placed the capsule of death between his lips and closed his eyes.


J ohn Castle’s astral self floated idly over the bed where the life¬ less shell that had been his earthly body lay. It was rather an odd sen¬ sation, this being freed from the bod¬ ily prison one had occupied so long. It was quite an unusual feeling, too, to look at oneself from the viewpoint of an outsider.

So he was dead, at last. He wasn’t quite sure that he liked the idea of being dead, after all. Suppose some¬ thing should go wrong? Suppose the machine should fail to resuscitate him? But then, it could not fail, he assured himself. It was perfect—with¬ out a flaw.

He wondered what his wife would do when she awoke, a few hours hence, and found him dead. At the thought of his wife, he found himself trans¬ ported to her boudoir. As he drifted over the spot where her graceful form lay sleeping, her features lighted with a radiant smile, as if she sensed his presence there.

He sighed as he thought of leaving the children behind, even for a few short hours. Once more the scene changed, this time to the nursery, with its two cribs, where his little boy and girl slept the sweet, innocent, dreamless sleep of childhood.

Locked doors proved no barrier to John Castle in his new form. A sud¬ den desire for one last look at his laboratory, and he was inside. Yes, everything was just as he had left it before embarking on this perilous voy¬ age.

All at once, Castle sensed another occupant of the deserted room, but not a soul could he see. He could feel the presence of someone else by his side. An invisible hand touched his elbow, and a voice spoke into his

THE BETTER CHOICE

“Come, John, it’s time we were moving on. ’ ’

John Castle turned in the direction of the voice. Still he could perceive no one. He felt no fear, only an eery sensation at the novelty of the situation.

“Moving on? Whither? And who are you, to dictate whither I go?”

“Calm yourself, my dear John,” the voice returned; “I happen to be appointed to guide you through neb¬ ulous infinities to your ultimate eter¬ nal goal. You see, John, you no longer direct your own destiny. The phys¬ ical ‘you’ has ceased to be.”

The newly-dcad man felt an irre¬ sistible tug at his arm.

He might just as well go along, he reflected; might just as well get the most out of this experience before his invention recalled him to his earthly body. With a last, long, backward glance at the old, familiar surround¬ ings, he drifted through the windowpane and out into the night, the pres¬ sure of the invisible hand guiding him as they floated along.

Par up above the earth they made their way, high up into the azure of the clear sky where myriad twinkling stars lighted their path.

As they mounted, ever higher, it was if a veil fell from John Castle’s eyes. The air swarmed with astral bodies like his own. He could distin¬ guish men and women from all walks of life—clerks, bankers, labor¬ ers, artists, all rubbed elbows in the most cosmopolitan fashion. But what impressed John Castle most forcibly, what made him realize that these were creatures different from those of the sphere he had left behind, was that each and all of the passers-by were as transparent as the glass in his labora¬ tory window. He could see them, know that they were there, yet look directly through them!

He fell to speculating as to the sen¬ sation he would create when, after being pronounced dead by the phy¬

sicians, he would live and breathe once more. He wondered whether, when he should tell them of his findings in the land beyond, they would believe, or scoff at him.

His ethereal companion seemed to read his thoughts.

“John Castle, have you entirely dis¬ counted the possibility of failure? Have you never Btopped to wonder why other scientists have never suc¬ ceeded in obtaining the power over life and death you assume you con¬ trol?”

Failure .... assume .... slowly, surely, the scientist realized the ap¬ palling inference in the specter’s words. Was he to fail despite his carefully laid plans? Must he really die and leave behind, forever, all that he loved and cherished ? Had he been a fool even to dream of matching his man-made science against the great All-Power who ruled the universe? A wave of bafflement swept over him, a sense of distinct loss, a feeling that he had been cheated. Yes, that was it, exactly—cheated! Just at the mo¬ ment when fame seemed to be within his grasp, two-score years short of man’s allotted span; forced to leave home, wife and children while hun¬ dreds, thousands of others with not half his opportunities or interests in life lived to a ripe old age!

Again his ghostly guide divined his

“Have you forgotten that your life was taken by your own hand? How¬ ever, John, there is no room for dis¬ content in the realm whither we are bound. Just what would you consider fair?”

“I would go back to earth as I had planned and live my life according to my own dictates. No one there would be the wiser—no one knows yet that I have died. Grant me just another twenty years of life, and I would be content to leave the world behind.”

John Castle’s companion sighed.



“I fear, John, that even then you would not be satisfied. For a good many centuries, now, I have guided souls from earth to eternity, and I have not yet found one who did not protest at severing his connection with the world below. Sometimes we find it necessary to send a soul back to earth for a few more years that he may learn to resign himself to the inevitable. It may be thus with you. But, first of all, you must come with

He swerved sharply to the left, and soon they left the hurrying throng of astral wanderers far behind. Both fell silent as they traced their mete¬ oric course, mounting higher and higher till the topmost star gleamed far below them in the vast universe.

John Castle became suddenly con¬ scious of encompassing gloom, an il¬ limitable ocean of inky darkness that engulfed him—a darkness so intense that the blackness hurt his eyes— dark, with the darkness of night; black, with the blackness of purgaA tiny point of light appeared in the center of the black void. Slowly it grew, until it became a bright, spin¬ ning ball of golden yellow; larger and larger, till its brightness almost blind¬ ed him. The whirling slackened and John Castle discerned figures moving about in the nebulous mass. An un¬ seen, magnetic power drew him into the vortex to join them. As he yield¬ ed to this uncontrollable impulse, he heard the voice of the stranger in his

“Behold, John Castle, what Fate holds in store should you return to the land whence you came!”


J ohn castle, wild-eyed, staring, let the latest message slip from nerve¬ less fingers to the floor, and crumpled into his desk chair.

God! How his head throbbed! The Strain of the past few weeks had been

nerve-racking, nerve-breaking. And now it was all over. This was the end. Home, money, reputation, every¬ thing swept away in one mighty, co¬ lossal upheaval, that left him penni¬ less, ruined!

He wished he were dead! Then he thought of the odd nightmare he had had so many years before. He had never forgotten that dream. He re¬ membered how he had pleaded with the ghostly stranger for a new lease of life—let him think: he had asked for twenty extra years. The time must be nearly up. How he wished the dream had been true, that the ethereal visitor would come now to take him out of his misery.

Well he knew who was responsible for his downfall. It was Montague White—damn his soul!

As near as he could remember, that crazy vision of his had been the be¬ ginning of it all.

He had always laid that dream to the effect of the drug he had taken. Somehow he had miscalculated the ef¬ fect of the poison and it had failed to do its work. Then, he was glad; now, he wished it had killed him. Dream, vision, whatever it had been, it had so unnerved him that he had been unable to continue his laboratory experiments. His letter to White, the machine itself, he had destroyed.

Then, at his solicitation, White had taken him into his office. They made an ideal team: Castle, the genius, the brains of the combination; White, the doer, the balance wheel. To¬ gether they formed an unusually suc¬ cessful pair. In an incredibly short time he found himself a partner in the business. Then came the quarrel. He couldn’t even remember what it had been about, but he recollected how he had left the office in a blind rage.

Once alone, he had begun to amass a tremendous fortune. A modem Midas, everything he touched turned to gold. But for every dollar he made (Continued on page 184)

P ROFESSOR HURLEY leaned forward tensely and added a drop of a sparkling red liquid to the jellylike gray mass in the jar before him. He placed the tips of his long white fingers together and nar¬ rowed his eyes to mere slits, while his high, pale, intellectual brow wrinkled in a slight frown as he mused.

His repose was interrupted by the entrance of Leroy, the young student who was studying under him.

“Sorry to bother you, professor, but I wanted to finish that plating test X started this morning.”

Leroy eyed the jar on the profes¬ sor’s desk.

“New experiment?” he inquired, lifting his eyebrows quizzically.

“Yes, it is,” said the professor. “Sit down, I want to talk to you.”

There was a moment of silence as Leroy drew up a chair. Then the professor spoke.

“Leroy, do you believe it possible to make living protoplasm?”

The young man smiled.

“Well, I don’t believe it is impos¬ sible, but so far no one has done it.”

“Suppose someone were to do it. Would that not be wonderful?”

“In the abstract, yes, but I fail to see where it would affect anybody or

anything, save the fame of its discov¬ erer. A mass of simple protoplasm would be useless.”

“But not if made up into tissues!”

“Now you are talking fantasies, professor, for you know that proto¬ plasm is but the filling, as one might say, of a cell, and must be surrounded by a cell wall and contain a nucleus before it is really active.”

“Suppose we could eliminate the nucleus and supply the cell wall; then should we not have living cells to build muscles and tissues with?”

“But would it be possible to do away with the nucleus and to make a cell wall?”

“The mesoglea of a sponge is living tissue, and yet it has no nucleus. You know that such a simple thing as a cell wall could be created.”

“Exactly what is the point of all this questioning, professor?”

“Only this, Leroy,” said the old scientist, leaning eagerly forward with a strange light burning in his pale gray eyes: “in this jar is living protoplasm! Before the night is over it will have formed itself into cells, un-nucleated, imperfect and weak, to be sure, but living cells, nev¬ ertheless, which, with proper care, can be developed into living flesh!”



For a moment complete silence reigned in the great laboratory. The last rays of the afternoon sun shone through the tall, barred windows in long, slanting, golden beams, accentu¬ ating the gloom within and bringing out the figures of the two men in startling relief. At last Leroy gasped:

“Living flesh? Why, professor, surely that is impossible! The evolu¬ tion of the single cell to the complex tissue took millions of years! ’ ’

“See this?”

The professor took from a drawer the bottle of red liquid he had been

“This greatly hastens the develop¬ ment of the protoplasm. Within two weeks we shall have workable tissue, but of course there are many compli¬ cated procedures we must go through which will involve some time, but I believe eventually we shall be able to say that we have chemically created a living organism!”

“How?” asked the young student, excitedly.

“Leroy,” said Professor Hurley, slowly, leaning back in his chair and shaking his head thoughtfully, “men have not yet devised words that can adequately describe what has been re¬ vealed to me. By working with me on this discovery, you may learn, but it is too stupendous for mere words. It is the secret of life itself! Using chemically constructed tissue as a base, and grafting various organs in¬ to it, the possibilities are unlimited.”

He took a bit of the gray, semi¬ transparent substance from the jar and placed it on a microscope slide. The two men bent their heads over the instrument and conversed in low, ear¬ nest tones until far into the night.

M ore than three years later, James Hurley, Professor Hurley’s nephew, returning from abroad, bounded up the steps to his uncle’s home. The old family servant greet¬ ed him at the door and took him to

the laboratory where the professor and Leroy were working.

The young man rushed in to greet the kindly old unde he had known a few years before, but drew back aghast at the white-haired, deathly pale old man with deep-set, burning eyes, who confronted him.

“Why, uncle, have you been sick?” he exclaimed.

“No,” replied the old professor in hollow tones, “just working hard on a big experiment.”

“You’ve been working too hard, I’m afraid. What is the experiment?”

“Come with me and I shall show

Leroy led the way down into the basement of the big house. He switched on the light and touched a concealed button. A portion of the wall slid slowly and silently back, re¬ vealing a dark and sinister-looking cell, or rather pit, for its floor was some eight or ten feet below that of the cellar.

As the three men lined up at the brink, the professor turned on a strong light in the roof of the cell, which illuminated the interior bright¬ ly. His nephew gave an exclamation of horror, for there, in the center of the floor of the foul, sweaty pit, was the product of the two scientists’

It lay a shapeless mass, clothed in matted, jet-black hair, the kind of hair one sees on sewer spiders. Along the lower parts of its sides protruded two rows of the blotched, gray-green tentacles of the octopus, which dragged limply as the thing rolled slightly on its four short stubby legs.

The face on the stocky, low-hung protuberance that was its head, was a repulsive, hairy mask in which two lidless eyes rolled slowly and hideous¬ ly from side to side. There was no sign of a nose, while a great, gaping mouth with formidable fangs occu¬ pied the entire lower quarter of its face. Its most startling feature was


“Yes, the body is cleverly enough constructed, but the brain is my mas¬ terpiece. Since only the arms of a human being were used, only that part of a human brain that governs the arms was put into my composite brain. So it is with the octopus’ ten¬ tacles: only the portion of an octopus’ brain that controls its tentacles was

“Practically all of the bulldog’s brain was left in, so the creature has nearly all of the simple instincts of a bulldog, such as use of its jaws, fight¬ ing, and avoiding objects when it walks. All of the native pugnacity of a bulldog is present.

“But the most important thing of all is: this composite brain is con¬ trolled by my own! When I trans¬ mit the thought of the action of walk¬ ing, the beast’s brain reacts. When I think killing, it fights with almost in¬ conceivable ferocity and abandon. Re¬ member, I think the action, not the word; in fact, it is nothing more nor less than an extremely simple form of hypnotism, so simple that it is prac¬ tically thought-transference, for I have no personality to overcome. I have so trained myself that I can di¬ rect the thing almost as well as my own body. I will give you a little demonstration.”

T he professor stood quietly and gazed fixedly at it. Under his di¬ rection, it went through various gyra¬ tions, snapped its jaws, rolled over, and at length began to climb the op¬ posite wall of the pit.

With a slowness more horrible than speed, it progressed straight up, the tentacles making uncanny little noises on the sweaty walls, while the naked hands in front clutched frantically at little cracks and projections.

Now the thing halted and hung, like a huge spider, directly opposite them. James could see that under the fingernails of the hands the flesh was dead-white, and he knew, without

touching the grafted arms, that they were cold with the clammy, creepy cold of a week-old corpse.

The professor’s voice broke the si-

“To show yon how complete my power is, I will give the command

He looked at the hanging body. All holds let go simultaneously and it fell with a terrific thud to the bottom of the pit, where it lay limply, as if dead.

“Now watch!”

Again the professor directed his thought waves at the inert mass. As if touched by a galvanic battery it sprang into action. The professor’s nephew realized how immensely pow¬ erful the misshapen thing was as it lumbered rapidly about the pit. As it passed beneath him he could see the great thews rolling under the tough

“Could anyone’s brain direct it!” he asked.

“Yes, with simple thoughts such as ‘relax,’ ‘move forward’ or ‘kill’. Another extremely important fact is that I can detect its mental reactions, or, to use the term broadly, read its mind. Of course, its mental processes are very few and simple; in fact, the word ‘impression’ describes them bet¬ ter than ‘thought’. They are very elemental and embrace such subjects as extreme heat or cold, great hunger, and a kind of confusion, met with when the beast encounters a blank wall or an abrupt drop. In this way I can direct it even when it is out of my sight.

“Do not get the impression that it is unconscious except when under the direction of thought waves. It occa¬ sionally crawls about in the pit and will fight anything, any time, for the mere pleasure of killing, sometimes coupled with hunger. ... I wonder what it is thinking about at pres¬ ent!”

(Continued on page 171)

A Torture Chamber of the Middle Ages Becomes a Modern Means of Revenge

The IRON LADY in the CRYPT

By ZEKE LAKE

F ULLY seven feet high does she stand: a woman of studded iron, tall as the tallest giant, and robed as a devout nun of the Six¬ teenth Century. For more than four hundred years, since she was wrought and hammered into being in the forge of the stout blacksmith Denys, the existence of the Iron Lady has been one of many weird vicissitudes. From the glowing metal did the mighty Denys create her by the order of his liege lord: the Iron Lady, an effigy of the demure nuns of the time, a nun who smiles.

Tourists, visiting that quaint, gray-walled town of the Old World today, and gazing open-mouthed upon the Iron Lady as they harken to her grim history, often wonder why she smiles in such a cruel and cynical fashion. But the Iron Lady, like the Sphinx, only smiles on for¬ ever and makes no answer.

It is a somber place for smiling, this dark, cavernous, medieval crypt where the Iron Lady stands, this damp, stone-girt dungeon of creep¬ ing shadows, haunted—who will say me nay?—by the phantoms and blood stains of four hundred years. The crypt is peopled by the shades of those who came often, then, of a midnight, with flickering, smoking torches: armed guards and a prison¬ er who wore fetters. For it was the place of the Question in the ages past

—this musty, underground chamber with the stone walls four feet thick, through which the shrillest scream of hapless wretch could never peneAll this I knew one night when my spirit was borne back and forth through the centuries on the fear¬ some wings of nightmare. Like the gaping sightseers of my dream, I wondered why the Iron Lady of the crypt still smiles such a crooked, cynical smile in this Twentieth Cen¬ tury, now that she is only a curio, the gruesome relic of an age that is happily long dead. For, as I beheld her in that horrid vision of my sleep, I knew that her smile, so cruel, so harrowing, was no triumph of the art of the blacksmith of long ago who had created her, but that she actually smiled—evilly, triumphant¬ ly—as some cold-blooded human brute of flesh and blood, but lacking bowels, might smile. At least, so it seemed to me.

I wondered why she smiled so, I say. The mystery tormented my waking mind for hours, while I tossed sleeplcssly on my pillow. Finally I drifted off again into slum¬ ber, and, spanning seas and time, was borne back once more on the wings of nightmare to the Iron Lady in the crypt. In my dreams I saw her once more, and thus I came to know why she smiles. And this is what I saw in my dream. . .


T he old caretaker of that museum and crypt is a retiring, taci¬ turn man. It was on a night a month ago when he entered the crypt, bear¬ ing a guttering, sickly-raycd lantern, in the dead of the small hours when the establishment was silent and de¬ serted. There was another, a fop¬ pishly dressed, evilly handsome man, who chattered volubly with a Pari¬ sian accent as he followed with strange eagerness at the caretaker’s heels. The scene conjured up again the wraiths of the flickering, smok¬ ing torches, and the grim guards, who had escorted countless trem¬ bling prisoners down the winding stairway into the crypt in the nights of centuries past.

The caretaker halted in front of the Iron Lady and held the lantern over his head.

“And here is the relic that you were interested in,” he commented. “A rather grim and sinister old thing, n’est-ce-pas?"

He laughed briefly.

The strange man evinced much in-

“Tienst” exclaimed he. “What a prize for my collection—eould it only be mine 1 The Lady is not for sale, I know. Yet, gold can do many

“Ay, with your fortune,” ob¬ served the caretaker shrewdly, “I should think that any object which you coveted might readily become yours; ay, any object or thing which you fancied.”

He set the lantern down on the rough stone flags of the floor, and the nervous black shadows leapt fur¬ tively up from their lurking places in the corners of the crypt.

“Would you care to see the in¬ terior?” the caretaker asked.

“With pleasure,” replied the

The caretaker fumbled in his pocket and produced a heavy, wrought-iron key of ancient design,

which he inserted in the keyhole in the front of the Iron Lady, and turned. The old lock creaked, and two divisions of the great figure swung slowly outward with a sharp protest from unused hinges, dis¬ closing a hollow, black interior. It was then, with a chill of horror that caused my body to tense even in the dream, that I fully comprehended for the first time the use for which that mon¬ strous iron effigy had been designed by the gentle rulers of the Middle Ages. For, on the inside of the two hinged halves which constituted the body of the Iron Lady, were many long, slender spikes—cruel and sharp as poniards—which would meet in the center when the figure was closed.

The stranger crowded close and stepped partially inside that he might see the better, the caretaker standing immediately behind him.

“Did you examine these rude handcuffs?” asked the caretaker. “They were used to secure the vic¬ tim. One passed around the right wrist, like this, so!”—there was a sharp click—“and thus!”—another metallic snap of rusted locks.

“Why, what are you doing?” cried the prisoner in surprize, tug¬ ging vainly at the bonds.

“You asked to see the Iron Lady with a view to possibly adding her to your collection, and I am merely giv¬ ing you a practical demonstration of how she works,” quoth the care¬ taker, stepping back and laughing shortly.

The prisoner joined in with a laugh that died suddenly on his lips, like the yelping of a startled animal.

“Pray release me then, mon ami; I have seen enough of her work-

“Ah, no; the demonstration has yet to be made.”

“What the devil! Are you mad? Ma foi, but it is a poor idea of a joke,

THE IRON LADY IN THE CRYPT

my good fellow. I request you to release me immediately, and no more of this foolery. ’ ’

“Yes, I will release you—after I have told you a little story, and com¬ pleted my demonstration of the workings of the Iron Lady. ’ ’

All the nooks and crannies of the old crypt echoed to the booming voice, catching up the syllables and flinging them from comer to corner until they were resolved into a thou¬ sand whisperings that died as ab¬ ruptly as they had reverberated into

T he old caretaker finally contin¬ ued, with better control of him¬ self:

“You are a man of many amours, but of little real love except for your money and yourself, Parisian. Also, you are a swine. That does not mat¬ ter now, however. I would have you throw your mind back and recall, if you can, one of your many gay, fleet¬ ing loves of the years past. She was a simple girl of a Brittany village, was the petite Celestine—aha! you start at the name; you remember Celestine, then, my gallant Parisian? I see that you do.

“The little Celestine had hair like spun gold and eyes like great blue¬ bells. But enough. What is it to you, swine of a Parisian? To you, she was but one of your many fleeting loves, the idle pleasure of an idle hour; while to her, you were the ma¬ terialization of her maiden’s dreams, a fairy prince come true. You lured her to Paris; you remember? You lied to her. You abandoned her when she had served her brief turn. And —she died, she and her baby. Ah, you remember, Parisian? . . . And I was her lover in the village: her husband who was to have been.”

Followed a long minute, during which the intense silence of the great crypt was more unnerving than ever

deafening bedlam could have been. Then the chains rattled harshly as the prisoner moved.

“Her—lover? . . . Nom de Dieu! . , . Nom de Dieu! . .

“Exactly. And I thank the great God for this opportunity of making your acquaintance at last after all these years, Parisian. There could be no justice for such as you, so I am resolved to make my own law and to abide b} r it. You came here alone tonight in the hope of bribing me to help you steal some of this museum’s priceless antiques for your accursed collection. It was a trap I laid for you, Parisian! No man saw you come; no man will see you go. You shall simply disappear from the face of Mother Earth.

“As you may be aware, a swift river flows less than fifty feet from the museum walls. Your body may chance to be picked up by the nets at Vincennes, or it may be swept beyond to the sea: I know not which, nor is it my coneem. I only know that this is your wedding night, Parisian. And, since the little Celestine is dead, I have provided another spouse for you: I have lured you here to marry you to the Iron Lady!”

“In the name of God, mercy! Mercy!”

The caretaker laughed, silently, mirthlessly.

“You perspire; and yet it is not warm,” he remarked curiously.

He seated himself while the pris¬ oner raved, threatened, pleaded and wept by turns; but no answer did he make, save to give vent to his silent, mirthless laughter.

Ultimately did the caretaker weary of the exhibition. He arose to his feet and swung one side of the Iron Lady to the front. The slavering, gibbering creature within cringed and shrank shudderingly away as the spikes grazed his side.

“For the sake of the good Christ, forbear!” he moaned.


The caretaker only laughed, silent¬ ly, mirthlessly.

“She had hair like spun gold and eyes like great bluebells,” he mur¬ mured, as if to himself.

Slowly he forced the other half of the Iron Lady into position, so that the heavy doors met, and turned the key. The frantic exhortations and in¬ sane screamings inside died gradually away, like a phonograph running down and rasping horribly toward the end, until the crypt was strangely quiet again, and all faded away into blackness.

T hus did I come to know why the face of the Iron Lady of the crypt bears such a cynical smile. The name of that quaint Old World town where the museum is located, the name of the caretaker, the name of the un¬

fortunate Parisian—I know not one of them. For I was borne to that place on the wings of nightmare, I say, and saw these things only in that horrid vision of my sleep.

But I will assure you, nevertheless, that the spikes of the Iron Lady, wherever she may be, are rusted a bright, recent crimson—a crimson much too bright for the blood of four hundred years ago. And no one can suspect the truth about the disappear¬ ance of the Parisian, for I strongly believe that the Lady is looked fast and her key gone forever—perhaps reposing in the mud at the bottom of that swift river which swirls past the museum walls. And methinks, also, that the fickle Parisian is true, at least, to the Lady whom he married, for, of all the lovers that the Iron Lady has clasped to her heart, not one has ever loved a woman after her.

In WEIRD TALES for April

The LURE of ATLANTIS

By

JOEL MARTIN NICHOLS, JR.

At the bottom of the Sargasso Sea it lies, the fabled land of Atlantis; and its living seaweed attacked the vessels described in this fascinating story and dragged them down to the grave of missing ships.

ON SALE EVERYWHERE MARCH FIRST

I N a drunken rage, the master of the three-topmast trading schoon¬ er Eider had dragged Chortka, his cabin-boy, out on to the vessel’s poop-deck; and, for an imaginary de¬ linquency, was beating him cruelly with a rope’s end.

Old Andrew Knudsen, owner of the Eider, had heard grim rumors of this thing before, but until now he had met with no first-hand evidence of the captain’s reported brutality. In an instant, forgetting his avoirdupois and his dangerously weak heart, the famous Alaskan fur-king sprang from the wharf on to the schooner, and grasping the tall, raw-boned young shipmaster by the scruff of his neck, hurled him wrathfully against the taffrail.

“By heaven, sir, to think that yon arc my son shames me!” choked the old man, strangely white.

“I’m not th’ one t’ mother your Siwash mongrel!” mouthed the drunken shipmaster, staggering to his feet, his thin face aflame with fury. “Either he goes off this ship—or I

“Then you go off!” burst out Si¬ gurd Knudsen’s gray-haired father, panting heavily. “Black Sigurd you are to every Aleut and codfisher in

the Shumagin Islands; and you are as black as your name, sir! I’ve warned you and pleaded with you; I’ve hoped and waited, and stood for your dirtiness—but this is the end. This adopted boy is a thousand times more comfort to me than you have ever been, Sigurd. I swear to you, sir, that all I own shall be Chortka’s. Not a mangy fox-skin do you get!”

“Ha! You’re goin’ to throw me out for a dirty Siwash snipe, eh!” snarled Sigurd, his dark features hideously distorted by hate and the fusel-oil liquor that ruled him. His eyes gleaming murderously, he lunged at his father and would have clutched at his throat; but the old man, quick¬ ly stepping back against the rail, caught up an iron belaying-pin and struck his son a hard blow in the foreBlack Sigurd sagged to the deck, stunned. The portly trader, breath¬ ing hard and clutehing at his breast, would also have fallen had not Chort¬ ka leaped quickly to his side and held

“My heart!” gasped the old man, dropping the belaying-pin and lean¬ ing heavily upon the boy’s slim young shoulders. * ‘ Help me ashore, son. ’ ’

The strong and lithe Aleut lad helped his foster-father on to the


wharf and up to the big lonely house in which Andrew Knudsen lived.

“Come back ashore, Chortka,” pleaded the old man, as he entered the dark, high-ceilinged living room and seated himself shakily in his black oaken armchair. “I’ve been lonesome since you went on the schooner; and no good has come of it. You’ll never make a friend of Sigurd—much less bring him and me together. Sigurd was born with a blackguard bent— and a blackguard he will die. I knew it long ago;—that’s why I adopted yon, boy.”

“I try one time more, Crosna,” re¬ plied the comely olive-skinned youth, caressing affectionately the old man’s graying temples.

Loving his foster-father with all his simple young heart, and secretly at¬ tached to Sigurd, perhaps because he was the old man’s son, Chortka still yearned to bridge the chasm that cracked ever wider between these two.

“You are a good boy, Chortka,” said the old man, unsteadily patting the boy’s slim brown hands; ‘ ‘ but he will only beat you and abuse you more than ever, now. Sigurd is my son— but, God help me, he is a scoundrel.”

T he sea-tanned old trader relapsed into bitter thought; and Chortka slipped quietly from the room. Re¬ turning aboard the Eider, he found Black Sigurd still lying senseless on the poop, untouched by his ill-treated and indifferent Aleut crew. Lugging the shipmaster down into his bunk, the boy brought hot water and washed and dressed the wound in the temples of the man who had always maltreat¬ ed him.

And next morning, when Black Si¬ gurd, sick and delirious from the liquor he had drunk and the blow he had received, writhed on the floor of his cabin and frothed like a mad wolf, Chortka took to a fishing-dory and, facing the fourteen wind-swept miles of the Straits of Nagai, fought his

way through a blinding November snowstorm to the radio station on Unga Island, where he begged the wireless chief to call in a revenuecutter, that the ship’s doctor might attend the sick man.

Complying with the boy’s urgent entreaties, the radio operator picked up the cutter Sannak lying at Mershovoi, ninety miles to the westward, and notified her that she was needed at Popofif Island.

Returning to Sand Point, Chortka found Black Sigurd already recov¬ ered from his delirium and, except for the gash on his forehead, quite his usual surly and savage self. But still there was need of a doctor at Sand Point; for old Andrew Knud¬ sen was very sick.

The next morning, the trim white revenue-cutter, Sannak, dropped an¬ chor in the little rockbound harbor, and Winters, the ship’s doctor, came ashore in a motor-launch. As he ex¬ amined the old man, the medical offi¬ cer became grave. He took Chortka

“His heart is pretty bad,” he told the anxious youth. “ He may last for some time, but again he may at any moment have a stroke that will kill him. I have nothing on the Sannak that will help him. I can give you a prescription for something that may give him a little relief; but you can’t get it filled anywhere nearer than Seward.”

“We going to Seward with the Eider, Tuesday,” replied Chortka, eagerly. “You tell Sigurd to bring it!”

Writing the prescription on a leaf torn from his note-book. Winters sought the master of the Eider.

“Will you get this at Seward?” asked the doctor, presenting the slip of paper to the younger man. “It’s for your father.”

Rising jerkily to his feet. Black Sigurd involuntarily felt his ban¬ daged forehead. He seemed about to


water at bedtime,” he suddenly real¬ ized that it was the medicine for his father.

With an infuriated curse, Black Sigurd raised the bottle high above his head and was about to smash it down with all his strength upon his chart-table, but just as he stood with arm upraised, something else caught his eye; and in that fleeting instant there shot through his mind with the flare of a lightning-flash, an idea—a germ of a plan as diabolically terrible as it was uncannily clever.

Protruding from among the pack¬ ages lashed on the table was another bottle, a large vial with a glass stop¬ per, filled with a white crystalline substance—the strychnin for Sour¬ dough Ola.

Black Sigurd slowly lowered his arm. Steadying himself against the table, he plucked the vial from among its surrounding packages, and looked at it. He himself had used the stuff for poisoning wolves and other fourfooted enemies of the young foxes; he had often watched the convulsions and spasms of the victims after they had eaten the tainted meat. He saw with fiendish clearness that if a man with a disordered heart were given such a potion, his death would follow in like fashion—and who would dream that he had not died of his own ailing? Half-consciously, Black Sigurd found himself reflecting that those white grains, dissolved in water, would make a clear liquid, similar in appearance to the heart medicine.

Had his father not vowed to disin¬ herit him? Had he not sworn that Chortka should have all? In his tensely strung state, Sigurd Knudsen saw with the vividness of reality what that meant—the big trading-store at Sand Point; the big sheaf of bonds in the bank at Seward; the rare blue and silver foxes on Bendel and Spec¬ tacle Islands, a fortune in themselves; the great somber house in which he was bom, and the other buildings;

and all the boats—yes, even the spritely schooner beneath his feet! His father had sworn that it all should be Chortka’s—and Andrew Knudsen would keep his word.

Black Sigurd had many times thought of ridding himself perma¬ nently of the old fur-trader’s orphan protege—but he dared not. With whatever cunning he might bring about Chortka’s death, Andrew Knudsen would surely understand; and Black Sigurd would have defeat¬ ed his own purpose.

Then was he destined to see all his father’s goods in the hands of the cursed little Aleut interloper? Should he live to find himself a disinherited pauper, forced to hand-line for codfish in a wet and slimy dory through the raw, misty days of spring, and per¬ haps crouch beside a moonshine still in a squalid mainland hut during the bitterly cold months of Alaskan win¬ ter?

But would he murder his own father?

Wavering, Black Sigurd set down the vial, only to find his thin fingers instantly itching to take it up again; —then the Eider lunged dizzily down the side of a high sharp-crested sea and pitched him violently against the wall. He struck squarely upon the wound in his forehead, and ten thou¬ sand scintillating daggers of pain flashed before his eyes. Black Sigurd ground his teeth in a frenzy of rage and agony; and his fearful decision

Staggering into the tiny pantry that adjoined his cabin, he uncorked the bottle of medicine and emptied the contents into the sink. Into a pitcher of water he stirred a quantity of the deadly white powder in the vial. Black Sigurd took a pinch of the stuff between his fingers and knew that there was no mistake. It was certainly strychnin. When the terrible potion was made, he filled the medicine bottle with it.

THE DEATH BOTTLE


As he started to go out of the pan¬ try, his elbow struck against a flimsy wooden rack filled with dishes, knock¬ ing the thing to the deck with a crash that brought Chortka flying from his narrow quarters just off the mess-

“Get back to your bunk, you brat!” snarled the shipmaster, when he saw the frightened Aleut lad peer¬ ing through the door at him. “I’m fixing something for my headache. ’ ’

T welve days out from Seward, the Eider tacked around the reeffringed promontory of Mountain Cape, on the outskirts of the Shumagin Islands. Pacing a stiff north¬ wester, the swift schooner beat through the night up the Straits of Nagai, passed the lonely twinkling lights of Unga at midnight, and two hours later bore abreast the dark precipices of Squaw Harbor Pinnacle.

To the eastward a cold early morn¬ ing glow silhouetted the white-man¬ tled ranges of Nagai, while the majes¬ tic peaks of Unga Island loomed above the Eider’s port beam in the snowbreathed dawn, stupendous granite sentinels before the brooding moun¬ tain wilderness of the northern main¬ land. Soon a power boat put out from Sand Point, barking staccato-like in the chill morning air, to bring the schooner in alongside the wharf.

As the Aleut crew worked through the gray forenoon, discharging the cargo of the Eider, twice Sigurd Knudsen took the bottle from under his pillow, only to waver each time and put it back. But in the afternoon he saw his father, now somewhat im¬ proved, walking on the wharf with an arm thrown affectionately around Chortka’s shoulders; and Black Si¬ gurd, under the inflaming influence of a new supply of Bull Barney’s liquor, reviewed all his thoughts of the night off Kodiak Island, again picturing himself an outcast and a derelict while the Aleut orphan rev¬

eled in his father’s estate. His smol¬ dering hatred blazed up with fresh¬ ened fury.

That night he gave the bottle to Chortka.

“Take this to my father,” he told him.

The boy obeyed.

T he next morning Andrew Knud¬ sen was dead.

Russian Mary, the old woman who kept house for him, brought the news down to the Eider. Coincidently, the Sannak called at Sand Point for fresh water; and in company with the doc¬ tor from the revenue-cutter, Sigurd Knudsen went up into his father’s

They found the old fur-king lying crosswise on his bed, flat on his face, with his hands reaching far out and clutching at the rumpled bed¬ clothes. Black Sigurd’s eyes went swiftly to the little table at his fath¬ er’s bedside, and instantly glued themselves upon a familiar bottle. There was a glass and a spoon beside it, and the young shipmaster saw that the bottle had been uncorked and some of its contents used.

“His heart got him,” stated Win¬ ters, in a matter-of-fact tone, as he turned the body over. “He seems to have gone into extraordinary convul¬ sions before he died. ” The physician touched the tensely-drawn muscles on the dead man’s face, now cold and

Black Sigurd said nothing. Some¬ where within him there was a hard and sarcastic laugh. What fools docAndrew Knudsen left no will, and the whole of his great estate passed into the hands of his only son. Black Sigurd’s first act was to banish Chort¬ ka from the island.

Tying up the Eider, the young ship¬ master went ashore and lived in his father’s big house. Alaskan winter came on, with its storms and blizWEIRD TALES

zards. Black Sigurd, always alone, gradually began to be affected by the gloomy atmosphere of the dark and silent building in which he lurked. Constantly reminded of his crime by his surroundings, he came to find a strange fascination in the room where his father had died, and quite against his will, his feet daily took him into

On one of these visits, he espied, wedged between two bureau drawers, a crumpled and partly tom piece of legal paper. Recognizing his father’s handwriting on a protruding comer, he dislodged it and smoothed it out. It was a half-completed will; and in its wording it cut off Black Sigurd entirely from the Knudsen estate. The jerky lines showed that it had been written with surging emotion, and the letters grew more irregular toward the end, until they finally became an illegible jumble—then scrawled ob¬ liquely across the lower part of the page were the words:

“No—I love my son.”

The awful enormity of his crime came to Black Sigurd in a lightningbolt of realization that rent the wind¬ ing-sheet of callousness enclosing his corroded soul; those five words flamed in blinding, white-hot letters that burnt him to the very depths of his being. On that day his long-dead con¬ science was reborn, and from that day he led an existence of horror.

Brooding always over his crime, he lay unnumbered sleepless hours through the long nights of Alaskan December, listening to the fancied voice of his father in the shrieking winter blizzards that swirled fiercely down the mountainsides, rattling at the window-panes like an army of avenging furies and shaking the dark and chilly house as if it were dead marsh reed; while by day he sat watching wispy f antasms dancing out¬ side among the silently falling snow¬ flakes that grew into immense drifts around the warehouses and sheds and

made gigantic white ghosts of the island mountains which girded the harbor round.

Black Sigurd tripled his drinking, which only aggravated the ghostly fancies of his imagination. The face of his father, drawn and agonized as it had been in death, haunted him unceasingly, while long-neglected memories of paternal kindnesses in the days of his childhood trooped end¬ lessly through his mind.

Near gone mad, he at length fled from the house. Returning aboard the Eider, now become a grotesque goblin-ship of snow and ice, he found less peace than before.

Again and again he watched him¬ self preparing the death potion that night the schooner had rolled and pitched in the Gulf of Alaska; and now, as the northwest winds roared down the Straits of Nagai and drove wild multitudes of white-crested seas into the mouth of the little harbor, the Eider chafed unceasingly against the ice-crusted wharf pilings with weird creakings and moanings that banished sleep and gave the man’s avenging conscience constant oppor¬ tunity for torment. His nervous sys¬ tem shattered, he fled back to the cold, dead house ashore, and lived in alter¬ nate fits of insanity and hypoehon-

'T'vecember and January dragged by. February came, with still fiercer gales and hurricanes. There was almost no daylight, and what lit¬ tle there was lighted only a dismal world of snow and granite. Black Sigurd’s supply of liquor ran out, and since the terrific weather had completely halted inter-island travel, he could get no more. This was a fresh load of torment upon his wrecked nerves. In his weakening mind, he began to hear the dying moans of his father more and more clearly, and sometimes saw his pain- (Continued on page 190)

A Fascinating Tale in Lighter Vein

Adventures of an Astral

By GORDON PHILIP ENGLAND

Author of “The Mooter of HelT

W HY mortals cannot be con¬ tent to remain mortals; why they crave to loose souls from bodies and go wandering about in planes other than their own—these are puzzling questions. Yet many people are subject to such desires, and eagerly consult mediums and magi¬ cians, and delve within pages of spir¬ itualistic volumes with the hope of thus realizing their abnormal ambiDid most persons know what I, Ed¬ ward Grant Thompson, know, or ex¬ perience what I have experienced, then I feel convinced they would be satisfied to dwell in natural spheres, and not go aimlessly rambling about the universe as star-rovers.

I must admit, however, there is a certain fascination connected with the astralizing process which brings with it very pleasurable sensations. Doubt¬ less this is one reason why so many seek to become proficient in the art, even though it often requires years of arduous study and unswerving de¬ termination and perseverance to masBut I myself, having been reared by a maiden aunt who continually dipped her bucket in the lore of spir¬ itism, was well versed in occult sub¬ jects, and at an early age learned to perform successfully the astralizing

Between the ages of eighteen and twenty-six, scarcely a week passed during which I did not astralize my¬ self at least one night. Gradually it became an easy process, for the long¬

er one practises it, the more adept one becomes.

Just before my twenty-sixth birth¬ day, I married. Then my troubles

Now I do not wish you to think that my wife was ill-natured, for she was not. Lucetta Greycs, the girl I mar¬ ried, was in every way but one an ideal mate. Yet that single fault was most annoying. Lucetta was strongly opposed to astralizing, and considered all people who dealt in such matters directly allied with demoniac spirits.

Before marriage, I did not tell Lu¬ cetta I possessed astralizing power. Had she known, it is unlikely she would have taken me as husband. But she had not, for I had met her at her home in England, far from my native America, and she had had no oppor¬ tunity to learn in what environment I had been brought up.

Being well acquainted with her views, you can be sure I said little to her upon such subjects prior to our marriage, thinking I should be better able to win her to my beliefs after the ceremony had taken place.

Tj'OR two full months after marriage, *■ I refrained from my secret pleas¬ ure. Then the longing to return to an astral state became so intense that I told Lucetta just how matters stood, and entreated her to allow' me to in¬ struct her in the psychic art.

The effect of my disclosure was most startling. Upon hearing me state coolly that I, the man she had married, was a frequent visitor to the


spiritual world and an avowed dev¬ otee to the cult of spiritism, Lucetta uttered a piercing scream and fell un¬ conscious.

As she dropped upon a soft rug, she received no hurt of body, but her soul had sustained a tremendous shock, and she did not immediately recover from this. Her fainting fit was suc¬ ceeded by one of hysteria, and I found it necessary to get her a doctor.

My wife was not entirely herself again for several weeks. Indeed, she did not become her former self till she had exacted from me a solemn prom¬ ise that I never would astralize my¬ self again.

Not till after numerous nerve-rack¬ ing curtain lectures did Lucetta wring that promise from me. But at last, completely wearied of domestic tur¬ moil, I gave in and took the required oath.

That done, my wife speedily recov¬ ered, but the effect upon myself was not so pleasing. Deprived of my pet pleasure, I felt completely miserable. I lost all interest in the earthly world. Even my love for Lucetta began to pale. A thousand times a day I cursed myself for having been so spineless as to allow a woman to overrule me.

Yet, despite all, I kept my promise, though frequently temptation assailed me to disregard it. But though firmly resisting my desires, I became each day more sulky and sullen, making life almost unbearable for my wife.

Often I pleaded with her, begging that she restore my liberty, but she was obdurate.

“I don’t care what else you do,” she told me finally, “if you don’t do that horrid thing you call astralizing —or” (this was an afterthought) “run after other women.”

I rolled this speech over in my mind, trying to think of some form of amusement that would make a satis¬ factory substitute for astralization.

Suddenly an idea shot into my head. Why not try gambling! I

never had gambled, but others consid¬ ered it an enthralling pastime.

“Very well, then,” I replied de¬ terminedly, “I’m going to Monte Carlo and make the wheel spin!”

To my surprize, Lucetta made no objection to my proposal, the reason being, probably, that her own prop¬ erty, which was considerable, had been secured for her by marriage con¬ tract; so, even if I lost my income, she would still have ample for all

npwo weeks later saw me at gambier’s paradise.

Arrived at the Riviera, I immedi¬ ately plunged into play, and found roulette even more interesting than I had hoped.

With beginner’s luck aiding, I won huge sums. My “system” worked perfectly for a whole week.

Then the wheel of Fortune reversed its action and began favoring the Casino. The result was that my sup¬ ply of the necessary francs dwindled rapidly and before many days elapsed I woke up from my dream of wealth without a sou.

Possessed with the gambler’s belief that as luck had changed once it must surely do so again, I borrowed from a rich Russian with whom I had struck up acquaintance, and recom¬ menced operations. But luck was still on the Casino’s side, and I lost all.

This was bad enough, but worse was to follow.

It chanced that the Russian who had backed me also received For¬ tune’s cold shoulder, and found him¬ self, as I was, without cash.

He came to me and imperiously de¬ manded repayment of his loan.

“But, my friend,” I reasonably protested, “how can I pay you? I have not a sou! I have not enough to pay my hotel bill! I am stony broke I I am—”

He interrupted rudely.


WEIRD

ing process. Some seconds later, my astral triumphantly sprang out, freed of all bodily chains.

"ITThat unique pleasure was then V ’ mine! For months I had with¬ held myself from astral joys because of Lucetta’s whim, but now at last, I was at liberty! Forgetting Russian, policemen, and other mortals, I cast off all earthly cares and flitted forth.

I now determined visiting certain countries I had never seen, even when in astral form. Meeting another male astral, I proposed to him that we visit the Andes mountains. Having never been there, he readily agreed.

We crossed the ocean, and sped on toward the Andean range. In an in¬ credibly short time we reached it.

It was delightful there, so we spent several days in the mountains.

On the morning of the twentieth day, an alarming thought rushed up¬ on me. What was happening to my body?

I voiced the question to my com¬ panion, who coolly answered:

“Doubtless it’s been buried by now. I lost mine five years ago by staying away too long. ” ’

“Good Heavens!” I cried. “That would be terrible! Why! What would poor Lucetta think?”

“Who's Lucetta?” inquired my fellow astral curiously.

“My wife.”

“Is she good-natured?”’ he asked, easting a searching glance at me.

“Very,” I replied, remembering how readily she had granted me per¬ mission to go to Monte Carlo; “very good-natured.”

“Well, if that’s so, perhaps you’d better go back,” remarked my com¬ panion thoughtfully. “A married man feels differently about such matters, I presume. I’m a bachelor, myself.”

I turned toward Monte Carlo.

“Will you come, too?” I asked.

“I may as well,” he agreed.

TALES

At that instant, a pretty lady astral floated by. She caught my friend’s

“Come to think, though,” he mur¬ mured apologetically, “I’ve an im¬ portant engagement. Afraid I can’t come. I may be along later.”

Turning his back upon me, he hur¬ ried off after the lady, calling:

“Say, Cutie, wait a minute; I want to tell you something”. . . .

I never saw him again.

I hastened on to Monte Carlo. En¬ tering my room, I looked about for my body. It wasn’t visible. But the hotel manager and one of the guests were there, talking about it.

“Yes,” the manager said loudly; “if the man’s wife hadn’t come, the body’d have been buried at the Casino’s expense. He lost much money there, and they always look after such little affairs. It’s policy to do so, you know.”

The guest nodded.

“Yes,” he agreed; “that’s one way the Casino has won the reputation of being kind.”

Then he added abruptly: “The Russian went mad, didn’t he?”

The manager caressingly stroked his silky mustache.

“That was the strangest part of the affair,” he remarked reminiscently. “Even after knowing the man was dead, he tore about the room looking for something. And when he saw those ashes on the floor he became vio¬ lent. It took six policemen to remove him. They put him in a madhouse.”

I grinned to myself when I heard that.

“Serves the beast right!” I vin¬ dictively thought. “He needn’t have been such a liog!”

But though all this was interesting, I had not yet learned what they had done with my body. But wait! What was the manager saying?

(Continued on pago 175)

An Egyptian-Baby Ionian Story

A Pair of Mummies

By CARLOS G. STRATTON

I S THEBE no limit to what thieves will steal ? I have heard of their stealing old tin cans, garbage, and even false teeth, and I have a vague idea of how a thief might see some value in any one of these. But I can¬ not see of what value one mummy could be to a thief; much less two mummies!

I was seated in the spacious, tiled and fountained lobby of an exclusive hotel in Venice, reading a recent issue of the London Daily Mail. Casually I glanced over its pages until the fol¬ lowing advertisement, buried in an obscure corner beneath the “country estates” and “table waters,” ar¬ rested my attention:

practised in ai for evidence le

e British Museum last Babylon. £50 reward

“That is a queer thing for any one to steal,” I remarked showing the ad¬ vertisement to a thin, elderly man, who sat next to me.

There was an Asiatic air about him that was mysteriously attractive. Nevertheless, he was unmistakably an Englishman. He had a touch, or per¬ haps it was only a shadow, of the past in his dark, Semitic eyes. The odor about him was musty and prehistoric. I thought, as I looked at him, that he was not far from a mummy him¬ self. He looked out of keeping with tile luxurious surroundings, in his dirty, old linen suit, which hung loose¬ ly on his spare frame. His hair and

whiskers sadly needed the smoothing attention of comb and brush.

The old man piqued my interest. He had a strange air about him, and X have found that people who appear strange usually have strange experiThe advertisement about the mum¬ mies proved to be the opening that I was looking for to engage him in con¬ versation. It seemed to shock him as he read it. His voice and manner were apparently perturbed, and his tone startled me as he spoke.

“I unearthed those very mummies myself. I carried them to London only a few weeks ago. As a matter of fact, sir, I have just come from Lon¬ don, having delivered them in person to the museum, after a three thousand mile journey with them. They were highly prized, as you can judge from the magnitude of the reward offered. ”

"Someone must have known of their peculiar value, and planned their theft,” I remarked.

“That may be,” he nodded.

After a pause in which he would not speak, I continued, “I see that you are a member of the London Psychical Research Society, by the emblem in your lapel. I was taken into membership a few years ago.”

He smiled slightly, nodded and said, “You will be interested in my story, then, touching those two mum¬ mies, which the press announces have just been stolen.”

I told him I would be very glad to hear the story, surmising by his man¬ ner that he had something to tell.


‘ ‘ T have been an archeologist for nearly forty years, and I hav© had some exciting times digging up the remains of once flourishing king¬ doms, but the climax of my whole life happened to me a few weeks ago in connection with these selfsame mum¬ mies,” he began.

*‘I was excavating in the ruins of ancient Babylon with a boon compan¬ ion. He and I were in the same quad at Oxford. We have globe-trotted together since our college days.

“Upon my word, sir, I had the most remarkable adventure, the most thrilling I have ever heard of. It is past belief, and had I not been pres¬ ent at the time, and known that it was all absolutely true, and not a dream, I should certainly brand it as a fabulous lie.”

He looked around cautiously, and then settled himself for the story.

“Prom last December until June of the present year, my companion and I, together with the other arche¬ ologists, excavated in the ruins of an¬ cient Babylon.

“We two occupied a small threeroom hut, built of ancient sun-dried bricks, inscribed with hieroglyphics, showing that they had once been used in a temple of the Sun God. Our hut stood apart from the others, overshad¬ owed by a grove of waving, shady

“We dug deeper and deeper into the ruins of that one-time Mecca of wealth, vice and art. The small frag¬ ments of marble statuary, bronze coins, occasional shreds of papyrus, broken vases, carved gems and crum¬ bled walls contributed to my excite¬ ment and frenzy. But frenzy is a weak word, sir. I slept anywhere from twenty-five mintrtes to two hours a day for weeks previous to June 19th. That day of days! I gulped my meals on the way to the diggings. I con¬

sidered eating and sleeping impedi-

“I had been ivorking a lifetime just for that moment, or one like it. But I little expected what it would be like —the thrill of it. That is the charm, of an archeologist’s life. It did come at last!

“Early that afternoon we struck the cornice of a drab-looking tomb. A mid cry of joy escaped me. We had unearthed just as promising speci¬ mens on previous days, it seemed to my partner, but with a madman’s fury and strength I tore a shovel from the hands of a coolie and burrowed into the sand. It seemed an eternity before I had uncovered the slab that marked the entrance to the tomb. The weight of the drifting sand had borne heavily against this door and cracked it. With chisels we drove the por¬ tions apart sufficiently to allow a man to pass inside.

“The tomb had been sealed for more than 2500 years from light and air. It was like going into a black, lifeless vacuum.

“In I pushed. Inflamed with curi¬ osity, my companion crawled in after me. I rushed to one side of the vault and pried open a sarcophagus—a highly ornamental, stone coffin. Picking up the mummy that lay in it, I gently unwrapped the face and covered it with passionate kisses. For long I knelt, embracing it tenderly.”

I stared at the old man, fancying a thousand causes, each a tale in itself, to account for his apparent lunacy, but none even approached the real truth.

“When I was satisfied,” he contin¬ ued, “I replaced that mummy slowly and tenderly. Going to the other side of the stately tomb, I pried up the lid of a similar mummy-case and dis¬ closed the face of its occupant. I knelt and gazed steadfastly at it.

A PAIR OP MUMMIES


"Cometime afterward my companion dismissed the coolies for the day and we sat down on the marble floor. I told him the story as we sat there on the floor of the tomb, as I am telling you now.

“From my arrival there I felt that the surroundings were unaccountably familiar and that I had been there before. Each bit of broken pottery reassured me, until about a month previous, when I became almost posi¬ tive of it. But how? I had never been within five hundred miles of the place in all my travels, until I ar¬ rived there last December.

"All day as we dug and dug, I had strange recollections of Egypt, where I have never been; princesses that I have never seen; the magic of medi¬ cines no longer known to man; rich jewels; huge masses of gold; and marvelous courts with troops of slaves. Nothing we unearthed was strange to me. But how?

“The morning on which we struck the cornice of the tomb, which looked so plain from the exterior, the same feeling welled up in me more intensi¬ fied. After I saw the kingly interior, I seemed to recognize it as if I had seen it before. I seemed to know that tomb as thoroughly as if I had fash¬ ioned it myself. But now it is per¬ fectly clear to me.

“Sir, one of those mummies was once a poor, wandering practitioner in herbs, but he knew all of Egypt’s secrets. He could kill or cure at will the giant or the leper. He journeyed from his native land, Egypt, to Baby¬ lon—the city of fabulous wealth and dazzling courts. He was one of the first to bring these secrets to this Babylon; hence the sensation that he

“All of his cures seemed miracles. People flocked by the thousands around the great young physician. His fame spread to the upper classes. After several seemingly impossible healings, he became the intimate

friend of a rich trader, who was so wealthy, sir, that it was a burden for him to build storehouses for his wealth. The trader was an old man, but the two became inseparable com¬ panions. All of the old man’s gold was at the disposal of the young phy¬ sician. You may be sure that he used

The narrator smiled and bobbed his head up and down many times.

“The other mummy was bedecked with jewels and gems of the rarest luster. She was a Babylonian prin¬ cess, the dearly beloved one of the young doctor. After he became asso¬ ciated with the wealthy Phenieian, he met her almost daily, for he attended the royal family as their physician.

“She was a breath from heaven, my dear sir. A breath from heaven, I say. Even now the profile of her mummy is perfect. Her beauty was Oriental and enchanting. Her slight¬ est wish it was his greatest joy to satisfy. Like many others, he fell madly in love with her. He sought her company as often as he dared. He had an added excuse for being near her, for he pretended to be attending her ills. She fostered his attentions and fortunately, or perhaps unfortu¬ nately, for his lot, she soon returned his love.

“He converted her to his belief, the religion of a gloomy hereafter, which required the preservation of the body. The Babylonians were carnal, and heedless of death and life after death—quite different from his fellow countrymen, the Egyptians. That is the reason why these were the only two mummies in all of rich Babylon. He told her of the next life, and they worshiped together in secret. She doubly respected him as a savior and as a healer.

“So far, the king had allowed their friendship to go on unrestrained, but he soon noticed the intimacy with his daughter, for the young physician had overstepped the bounds of mere healWEIRD TALES

ing. This was dangerous for the young doctor, as the king had prom¬ ised her as wife to a wealthy satrap of one of his provinces. The bargain was bound by the king’s signet and a cash consideration. A row of gold coins one parasang long (about three miles), placed side by side, was to be given to the king upon delivery of his daughter. The day was drawing near when she was to he handed over, and everlasting separation appeared

“A father’s rule over his child was iron-dad; as a divine-right king, he had absolute rule over her as his sub¬ ject. She was both child and subject. The inevitable was approaching. Obedience to her father had been taught her from the very cradle, so she could not force herself to disobey him.

“But, on the other hand, the natu¬ ral instinct had been so aroused in her warm, affectionate self that she would not forsake the young doctor for her father’s choice. They faced a dilem¬ ma. They wouldn’t leave each other, but it seemed that they must.

“'T'he eve of her wedding day arrived. The king’s palace was aglow with excitement, in preparation for the great event. She had a female servant who came to a certain gate of the palace every evening at sundown to receive the daily love missive for her mistress. On this particular trip, the young doctor sent word by this servant for his loved one to elope with him, and for her to come to the gate sometime during the midnight watch, where he would be waiting with

“Their escape was unmolested un¬ til they reached the outer guards of the city. They galloped past at a rapid rate without offering the pass¬ word. The guards mistook them for spies or thieves, and galloped after

“They rode steadily southward in¬ to the Arabian desert. The guards followed in pursuit, but after a while abandoned the chase, when they found they could not overtake the two without extreme effort, which was too much to expect of any guard dur¬ ing a festival at the capital.

“They came to an oasis near the north rim of the desert, where dwelt a cloistered prophet, who taught the young doctor much of his magic and healing. The holy man gave them refuge and wedded them. His oasis was considered very sacred. Even the nomadic outlaws of the desert never molested him. Thus they were sheltered so long as they stayed under his protection.

“They rested several days and then decided to start on. But they contin¬ ually saw across the wastes of sand bands of horsemen passing by. Then one band halted at the hermitage for water. The two remained hidden dur¬ ing the travelers’ stay, and learned upon departure that the band was one of the many parties that were comb¬ ing every bit of the king’s domain to find the king’s daughter.

“They sent ont slaves of the holy man on different nights to ascertain if they could run the gantlet, but all were evidently captured by searching caravans, for none was ever allowed to return to them. That proved the futility of attempting to escape.

"If they should try to flee from their prison, they would be certainly separated. He would be killed if they were discovered together, and she compelled to marry the foreign

"Life on that oasis would become irksome before long. She was accus¬ tomed to luxury, and the entertain¬ ment of a king’s court. He was a con¬ firmed wanderer, and permanency was distasteful. They faced the truth squarely. They could attempt flight and be separated; or else they must remain and watch their love

A PAIR OP MUMMIES

slowly wane in the close confinement, and so grow to hate each other as they then loved.

“They decided to solve the problem by committing dual suicide. They promised on their souls that they would unite in the next life, to dwell together in happiness eternal.

“But the grave difficulty was to obtain an appropriate burial place. They wished to rest side by side, that their souls might travel on together. She desired to be buried in the burial ground of her native Babylon. This necessitated a trip to the city to pre¬ pare their tomb. But he was well known at the capital and would be suspected instantly if he appeared again shortly after the king’s daugh¬ ter had vanished.

"So he bleached the hair on his head and face. You cannot imagine the change that it made in his ap¬ pearance. Then he donned the holy garb of the old prophet.

“Thus masquerading, he journeyed to Babylon, and obtained the gold from his benefactor, the wealthy Phenician, to build the tomb. The con¬ struction was well begun and all ar¬ rangements made for its completion before he returned to the hermitage. The old prophet was welt practised in the art of embalming, and agreed to embalm him and see that the two bodies were placed in the tomb, and have the tomb sealed without anyone’s knowing the identity of its occupants.

“The funeral procession from the hermitage into Babylon would be an unhindered one. The Babylonians very much disliked the thought of death or the remains of death and would avoid a funeral caravan when¬ ever possible.

“Then all was in readiness. They set a date when all was to end, and then spent one last sweet fortnight together. During that time they nev¬ er halted their love-making. Such ca¬ ressing! Such tenderness! And such

strong love! Never since the creation of man have two tarried in more di¬ vine love. All because it was definite¬ ly limited.

“As the end drew near it grew stronger and stronger. Their souls seemed to mold into one. There were no longer two of them. They thought, breathed and lived as one, and died

“When the young doctor adminis¬ tered the potion of hemlock and the pain-soothing myrrh to her, and watched life ebb from her sweet body, he felt a deadening sensation come over him. In the sixteen days that he took in which to embalm her body, he never spoke, he never ate, he never slept. He was but a living corpse.

“When his task was complete, he needed no potion to summon death. He merely lay down and life left him.

“All that he left to be done was done according to his requests.”

T HAD listened intently to every word A and sat in silence a few minutes after the old man had ended his tale.

Then I asked, “How is it that you know the story so fully concerning these two mummies? And why did you feel as if you had been in the tomb before?”

“One of those mummies was I as much as this,” he pointed to himself, “is I. Reincarnation, you see. I, me, myself, whatever you call it, was in one of those bodies at one time. That body felt as I feel, saw as I see, heard as I hear. You have felt some¬ times that you know that you know. Well, I know that I know, and I also know that I knew. That is as near as I can explain it.”

He paused a minute before he con¬ tinued.

“I recall all of this, it seems, out of my memory, as if I went through it no more than five years ago, when in reality it must have been 2500 years at least. I did fashion that tomb.



That is why I knew it so well,” he said.

“I wonder if she, too, will go back to that spot,” the old man murmured softly, looking straight ahead without

Then something shocked him back to where he was physically.

‘‘I’ll have to be going now,” he said, hurriedly rising. “But before I leave I want to tell you that I have my own mummy and the princess’ mummy in my possession now. I’ll show them to you if I get the oppor¬ tunity before I leave.”

He disappeared around some small indoor palms that stood at the backs of our chairs.

He had scarcely gone from sight, when two uniformed police came up the aisle toward me.

“Has a small old man in some dir¬ ty, linen clothes passed by since you

have been sitting here!” one asked me in Italian.

“Several have passed here,” I an¬ swered, to parry his question. “Ia such a man wanted?”

He grasped my coat collar in his im¬ patience, swore to his full satisfaction in far-from-endearing terms, known only in a language that has developed in a warm, leisurely climate, and then repeated, “Has such a man passed here!”

I wagged my head slowly in the op¬ posite direction from the one taken by the old man. They followed my directions, and started off in search

“What’s the charge?” I shouted after them.

“Stealing a pair of mummies from the British Museum,” one of them flung over his shoulder as they darted around the comer out of sight.

COMING SOON!

Two Smashing Novelettes

UNDER THE N-RAY

A Thrilling Tale of Reincarnation By WILL SMITH and R. J. ROBBINS

BLACK MEDICINE

A Novelette of Haitian Voodoo By ARTHUR J. BURKS

WATCH FOR THESE STORIES IN WEIRD TALES

T HE night was black and stormy. The sharp wind which had been blowing all day had freshened toward evening, so that now at about 8 o’clock, as I re¬ turned to town after a protracted day at the neighboring cliffs, it was a ter¬ rific gale.

An archeologist by profession, I had spent the past week searching the cliffs for hidden openings, crude steps, or ancient laddcrways, which should support my documentary evidence of the existence of an ancient cliff city in great caverns in the solid rock. The chief result of my investigations in Arizona had been the discovery of a number of carvings on stone, which when deciphered made reference to a magnificent city once existing in the

cliffs near the present city of X-.

Accordingly I had come with the ar¬ dent hope of making discoveries which should compare with those recently made by myself and others in the val¬ ley of the Euphrates.

X-is a small city of about five

thousand souls situated in the central part of New Mexico. On account, of its hot and cold springs it has earned for itself a considerable reputation as a health resort. Though it. is in no¬ wise a beautiful town, the climate is dry, the air is pure and clean and the

temperature is warm, often indeed very hot. Accordingly many people have flocked into it to receive the cure promised by the magical waters of its springs and its health-giving air.

The city itself spreads all the way across a sloping ridge, which gradual¬ ly rises upward until it terminates in an abrupt precipice, along whose steep sides I had been making my search. Although there is only one main busi¬ ness street, there are shops scattered about in various parts of the town.

On this late evening I was passing a small curio shop, in the window of which were displayed curiously carven oriental images, incense burners and so on, and as I looked into it I remem¬ bered a purchase I had so far neg¬ lected to make.

About a year before I had received by mail a fantastic oriental devil in bronze, along with a rather odd letter. The letter was from an older acquaint¬ ance of mine, then living in X-,

but of whom I had received no word since that time. It stated that this quite innocent-looking image was cast¬ ing a curse over my friend’s life, that it had a strange histoiy which he would refrain from telling, and sug¬ gested that I use my own judgment about keeping the gift or giving it away. I did use my judgment and.

Spa

mmm

jeffEHE-SSS

towST '“Vw fc“t“

^USi'xtS^X

wSi

“Mv soul'” I reneated , M ,w mv

5”"” b “ my,7 “' k ” t * d ”“

SA


WEIRD

^r. 1 , d0

§y?X*rwJS

slEial

■ f»r

SSlw. ~r-~“

THE FLAMING EYES


will help you if I can. What can I do!”

“Nothing,” she said despairingly. “I cannot escape.”

“Escape?”

“No. It is impossible.”

“But you can escape. I will help

I released her shoulders and took both of her hands in mine, feeling the knife gripped tightly in one of them. I looked into her eyes and I saw confidence and hope growing in

Then we heard a sound behind us, in the dark room we had just left. We stood a moment clasping each other’s hands, looking at each other with a nameless fear in our eyes.

“Quick!” she whispered, breaking the spell that held us fast. “We must run quickly! Come!”

She grasped my arm and we ran through the door ahead of us, which she pulled open, and out into an in¬ tense blackness. We ran and ran, and we heard sounds of pursuit be¬ hind ns. Once I looked back to see two red eyes flaming behind us out of the darkness. I felt my senses

We stopped suddenly. I knew that she had stopped me.

“It is coming! It will catch us!” she whispered, clutching my arm with one hand and pointing with the longbladed knife in the other. “Run straight on, there. If we separate we may both escape.”

“No!”

I felt my senses clearing a little.

“I will stay and fight while you

“No! You must not!” she in¬ sisted, her breath warm on my cheek. “It would kill you. Go now. Es¬ cape. I will be all right. But if you can, come tomorrow night. You have offered to help me and I must have help. I beg you to come!”

“Come? But where?” I asked breathlessly.

“Here. The way you came. GoodShe pressed my hand, released it, and I heard her running.

A moment I stood while my heart pounded. Then I ran on as she had pointed, swiftly. I had a sensation of numbing senses, of bodily elation, of lightness. I was flying, floating.

A terrible cold chilled my limbs, made my lungs ache. Then I was suddenly in fire, in terrific heat which scorched me.

Still I ran, or flew, while angry, grotesque gods and devils struck at me and opened wolflike jaws to sink yellow fangs into my flesh.

But I evaded all, felt myself being tossed, thrown, blown about like a feather. Then I felt quiet and rest.

T he grotesque oriental devil stood before me on the table. No longer did smoke belch from the half-open, grinning mouth; no longer did two pinpoints of flame glow from the eyes. I lifted the head from the shoulders and saw that the incense had burned completely out. Only a faint trace of the peculiar perfume was noticeable in the room.

The lights blazed from the chan¬ deliers. T looked about me. I stood up, tried my limbs.

I was here alive, and from the look of things I had never been out of this room!

But the vision of those other scenes was vivid in my mind. It was real. It must be real. The bright ante¬ room, the dark room adjoining, the choked hissing noise, the lighted room and its two images with the bril¬ liantly glaring eyes, the silent form creeping through the lighted door¬ way, my own pistol upraised. Then my interference, the short struggle, my flight with a light form in my arms, the beautiful girl with her fearstricken blue eyes, the interruption and our flight, those flaming red eyes


pm-suing... It was all real enough to make me catch mv breath, look

I thought of my pistol. I thrust my hand to my belt and found it there, but that proved nothing, as I had carried my automatic with me to the cliffs. My flashlight also was in my pocket, but I alwaj's carried that with me so that I might investigate any openings I should find. Neither pistol nor flashlight proved anything.

Could it have been a dream? It must have been.

I thought of the girl. She had been so beautiful. She was just the type of girl that I could love. Her alluring blue eyes, her lovely red lips, her beautiful golden hair! I loved her

She had told me to come again, that she must have help. Must!

Oh, well. What of it? I should have to dismiss it all as a dream.

I tried to dismiss it and retired to bed. But I could not sleep well that night. I tumbled and tossed and felt myself tormented by a pair of flaming red eyes; haunted by a beautiful girl in white riding breeches and jacket, whose eyes pleaded for help; startled by choked hissing noises coming to me in a vast endless darkness.

The morning dawned and I started about my usual schedule. After breakfasting at the restaurant I start¬ ed off to the cliffs with a short pick over my shoulder for exploring into the crevices of the rocks. I spent the whole forenoon searching about and digging in the crannies of the cliff wall. I found nothing to encourage

I returned to town at noon and I decided not to go out that afternoon. I was restless, perturbed. I had a sense of impending danger which I tried vainly to shake off. I spent the rest of the day taking in the sights of the little city.

I had always been very much inter¬ ested in the famous springs which

were the chief attraction of the town. There were five springs altogether. Three of these were hot, all close to¬ gether and enclosed by a high steel wire fence to guard against small chil¬ dren falling into the scalding water which filled the concrete basin about them. The water did not come up as a geyser, but only bubbled a steady flow of steaming white water.

Watching the white liquid flowing out of the wide lime-encrusted mouths I reflected that somewhere beneath, and not so very far beneath, there must be hot volcanic rocks and molten beds of lava.

Though these hot springs were un¬ usual in themselves, contrast with the other two springs made an unusual phenomenon. These two springs were distant about a block from the three first mentioned, and were also en¬ closed, with a separate pool of their own. But instead of being boiling hot they were as cold as if they flowed from a frozen glacier. The tempera¬ ture of the water was only slightly above freezing. This phenomenon was the more unusual on account of the warm dry region. Undoubtedly the springs were fed from some reser¬ voir deep in the earth, kept cold by geologic forces. Certainly no one would believe that there was a glacier underneath. However, there could be no doubt about there being a wide divergence in the sources of the hot and cold springs whose mouths were so close together.

I K the late afternoon I passed the curio shop. Something impelled me to step in, to see if my sensations of the previous evening would be re¬ peated.

There was no wind this evening and I entered without mishap. There was no one visible behind the counter, or in sight anywhere. Nevertheless I was conscious of someone watching me closely. As I looked back toward the rear of the shop I saw facing me a

THE FLAMING EYES

large bronze figure, a huge idol with evil, malevolent grin. I could imag¬ ine its great eyes bent on me balefully.

The huge fists of the figure were clasped together and upraised as if to strike or to hurl anything which might be clasped between the great fingers. One leg was thrust forward, and I could imagine a gleam in the wicked black eyes—could imagine that the figure was preparing to run forward

A moment I stood facing the menac¬ ing figure, then, conquered by a name¬ less fear, I turned and hastily left the shop. Outside I reflected that I had been a fool to allow such uncanny thoughts to master even for a moment my usual courage. Nevertheless I was certain that the figure had not been standing in the rear of the shop on my first visit, at least not in its pres¬ ent striking attitude. I would cer¬ tainly in that case have noticed it, as would anyone ordinarily observant.

I walked about, trying to shake off a feeling of uneasiness. I dined, and when darkness came on, which it did at that season about 7 o’clock, I re¬ turned to my house and went to my

The grinning bronze devil still sat on the table as I had left it the night before. My housekeeper had strict or¬ ders to disturb nothing in my Btudy, and the orders were carefully ob¬ served. I sniffed the air for a trace of the peculiar perfume, but I could smell nothing out of the ordinary.

I sat down before the table and dropped my head in my hands. Against my will my thoughts turned to the strange phenomenon of last night, whether dream or reality I could not decide.

The girl had said she must see me “tomorrow night.” That was tonight. But where should I sec her? How?

She was in danger. She had asked me to help her. How ?

Where was she?

I raised my head and considered the bronze devil. After a moment I lifted off the grinning head. I took out two cubes of incense from the ob¬ long box at my right hand. I thrust them into the hollow bronze body, found a match and lighted them.

The two flaming eyes glowed and seethed. A peculiar aromatic per¬ fume smote my nostrils.

I put the grinning head back on the shoulders. The eyes glowed with pinpoints of red. Grayish-white smoke belched from between the black evil teeth, trailed upward to the ceiling, and filled the whole room.

The smoke became dense, obscured all else. I felt myself flying through a great stillness, past jeering gro¬ tesque devils who laughed at me, into white-hot flame, through frozen space, then into comfortable warmth and quiet. g

I was in absolute darkness. I could see nothing. It was as if I were blind.

Intense stillness reigned. Only the faint beating of my own heart, the quick terrified gasping of my own breath, were audible.

I was on all fours, hands and knees resting on thick carpet. I was listen¬ ing for something, some sound, some

Finally I heard it: soft footfalls, a door opening behind me. I crouched in the darkness, poised to leap like a beast of prey. I waited until the footfalls sounded opposite, holding my breath, my breast pressed to the thick soft carpet to smother the beat¬ ing of my own heart.

I allowed the footfal's to pass by, to go on and on, away from me into the distance. After an interval I heard the opening of a door, and in a moment I heard it close again.

Then I got to my feet cautiously, si¬ lently. As if guided by a sixth sense I moved across the room to a door. I


5$

opened the door, stepped through it, and closed it behind me.

A pale subdued light filled the room I was now in, which was bare, unfur¬ nished, unearpeted. The same deathly silence prevailed. There was no sign of life, of motion.

Cautiously I waited across the room, exploring it. I looked upward. The light entered from overhead, through small round openings. It streamed in faintly as the light might shine into a deep well at night when there was no moon. I could make out nothing clearly, just the bare outlines of a room whose dimensions I was un¬ able to determine.

I waited expectant.

Suddenly a door opened before me. I knew it was not the one through which I had entered. A pale white figure hesitated in the doorway. The door closed and the figure approached.

“You came!”

In the silence of the room the whis¬ per was loud in my ears. I felt my blood stir.

“Yes,” I answered, as I stepped across the room to meet the one who had just entered.

I came close. I saw it was the girl. I had known it would be. She was very beautiful in the pale light. She was not now dressed in riding cos¬ tume but in a long filmy white gown, which showed her arms bare and beautiful, her shoulders white and lovely. I was conscious of the deep blue of her eyes even in the subdued light, while her red-lipped mouth seemed like a pale delicate rosebud just opening to unfold its pinkish glow. She was small, slender, beauti¬ ful.

She came to me and gripped my arm; she pulled me away, led me to the door through which she had en¬ tered. We went through it together, into a room lighted by chandeliers.

This room was small but brightly furnished, gay pictures on the walls,

velvet-covered chairs, a table with a few books neatly arranged upon it. One thing that I noted was the ab¬ sence of windows, and as I thought of it I knew that this feature was in common with the other rooms I had

Inside the room with the door closed the girl let go of my arm and stood away from me a little. She was breathing quickly as with excitement, her lips slightly parted. I found my¬ self looking into her eyes, drinking in the blue of them, feeling refreshed, exhilarated.

“T am so glad you came,” she whispered after a moment.

‘ ‘ I also am glad, ’ ’ I replied. ‘ ‘ Now, please tell me who you are, what you fear, everything.”

‘ ‘ I should not do that, but I must, ’ ’ she said. “ Will you promise to do as I say after I tell you, to make no move without my permission!”

“I promise,” I replied eagerly.

“Then listen carefully. My father in his youth was an explorer, traveler, adventurer. He wandered many times over the face of the globe, visited in¬ numerable out-of-the-way places in many countries. He had many ad¬ ventures, had many hair-breadth es¬ capes. He was shot at by bandits in Spain, menaced by native spearmen in Africa, but he always escaped with his life, laughing, smiling, debonair.

“This was all before he met my mother. After he met her and mar¬ ried her he settled down and traveled

ing to those who would listen, the strange and thrilling adventures through which he had passed.

“But when my mother died a few years ago he became restless. There came on him a longing to have just one more round of adventures before he died. I loved him and did not like to see him go, but I could not ask him to stay and be unhappy.

mm-m m

st;

Eips 3

|3

SSaSsS“- S

“The temple was apparently de- He wa

» 3 “ "

S&S ?

“As he stood at the altar railing rear

*s,i“

«fssSsi ii

THE FLAMING EYES

either hid the image or gave it to someone to keep for him. ’ ’

“That is more likely,” I conceded. “But what has developed since?”

‘ ‘ Only this. I have been persistent¬ ly haunted, hounded, by a nameless thing which has only eyes, terrible evil eyes. Two weeks after my fath¬ er’s death the phenomena started. I was in my room at night in bed. It was dark. The curtain was raised at my window, but there was no moon, and practically no light entered.

“I had been asleep, but I suddenly awoke as if startled. I looked toward the door and saw two eyes, glowing like red coals of fire! I was fright-

"Thcn I thought of cats. I knew a cat’s eyes would glow in the dark. Though I had no cat I felt sure after a startled moment that it was a cat sitting in a chair looking at me.

“There was a stand near the head of my bed with a book on it, which I had been reading before I went to sleep. I suddenly reached out a hand, seised hold of the book, and cast it with all my strength at the two glow¬ ing eyes. I hate cats. I am afraid of them.

“My aim was true, apparently, for I heard the soft thud of the book striking some yielding body. Then I heard a low growl, angry, hair-rais¬ ing. A growl, you hear. Do cats growl ? ’ ’

“I have not heard so,” I replied with sudden apprehension, looking

“Then the eyes flamed once and disappeared. After a moment I got up, found the light switch at the head of my bed, and turned on the lights. There was nothing in the room. The door was closed. I crossed over and locked it. I did not go to sleep again that night.

“Since that time there has not passed a week but that I have seen the eyes, sometimes at my door, some¬

times at the windows. Locks or shut¬ ters do no good.

“The influence those eyes have ex¬ erted upon me is terrible. I have been hypnotized. I have feared name¬ less fears during the day, and at night felt myself doing things terrible. Up¬ on awaking in the morning I know I have done something while my con¬ sciousness slept, something frightful, maybe, possibly crime, murder. I have a memory of two eyes driving me, ordering me. But no conscious¬ ness of anything done remains in my

“Until last night when you inter¬ vened I had no knowledge of what I was doing. Then it was as if I had just awaked and remembered a.

“You mean,” I whispered, “you mean that you were—out of your senses when you were creeping into that room with the knife in your

“ Yes, ” she breathed. ‘ ‘ It was you that waked me, your will that seemed to free me from a dreadful spell. But who knows what terrible things I have done before this, how many times I have raised that knife when no one intervened! Oh, it is terrible! What is it?”

“Hypnotism,” I said, taking her hands in mine and looking into her face searchingly.

“I do not know,” she said hope¬ lessly. “If that were so, what could I do?”

“Something must be done,” I re¬ plied. “You must let me come, watch at your door. I have a pistol. I am a good shot. Or the police. . . .”

“Oh, the police! Don’t you see? They would just say that I am crazy, that my father was crazy. Am I crazy? Do you think so?”

“No,” I asserted. “You are per¬ fectly sane. I have seen crazy peo¬ ple and I can see from your eyes that you are not crazy. You must let me protect you from this fiend.”

THE FLAMING EYES

I laughed. It was silly. It was idle. I was going insane, crazy. I must get my mind off this sort of thing or I would be in the asylum. I must go to bed, forget.

But I could not forget, and tossed restlessly, sleeplessly through the night, my mind a jumble of halfformed, fearful dreams.

The next day I went about my usual routine. I carried my lunch with me, as I had made up my mind to spend all the time until dark in my search of the cliffs. All morning and until late afternoon I scrambled about among the rocks, striking here and there with my pick, climbing on pre¬ carious footing along the cliff-wall.

A'ong toward dark, cutting away some scraggly brush from the side of the precipice, I found a small open¬ ing in the face of the rock. Digging excitedly about with my pick I wid¬ ened this opening until it was large enough to permit entrance of a man crawling on hands and knees. When I had made the opening as wide as possible with the tools at hand I threw aside my pick and, getting to my knees, thrust head and shoulders into the hole. I took my flashlight from my pocket and sent a glow of light ahead of me into the intense dark¬ ness. For a short distance I could make out the walls of a passage on either side, but ahead of me the re¬ vealing light faded away into black¬ ness without a sign of an end to the cavern. The floor seemed to be about ten feet down from the entrance, mak¬ ing the height of the chamber about twenty feet.

I had a great desire to explore my discovery immediately, but it was fast growing dark and I had quite a distance to make over precarious foot¬ ing until I reached safe ground at the top of the cliffs. Accordingly I left further explorations to another day and started out on my return journey while I yet had sufficient light to make it in safety.

The sky had been cloudy all after¬ noon, and before I reached town there had come on a spattering rain. It was dark before I reached town. As I passed the lighted doorway of the Hindoo shop the thought suddenly oc¬ curred to me that I had only two cubes of incense remaining. I should have some more. Whatever the strangeness and terror of my nightly dream, I wished it to be repeated un¬ til I should either bring this beautiful dream-girl into reality or at least satisfy myself that there could be no basis in fact for her existence. How¬ ever much I might laugh at myself for it, I knew that I had fallen in love—how hopelessly I was only too well aware. If she were a dream, it was only in dreaming that I could be happy, and there was no doubt in my mind that the dream was in some way the product of the burning inI entered the shop rather fearfully. The proprietor was in. He faced me across the counter.

“Something, sahib?” he asked, his reddish-brown eyes pleasant enough.

“Some incense,” I said. “Some of the rare kind you gave me before. You remember?”

“Yes, sahib.”

He turned away and searched be¬ hind him on a shelf. While he was doing so I looked toward the rear of the shop. There was no sign of the huge idol that had confronted me the day before. There was nothing at the rear of the shop but a number of tall, innocent-looking packing-cases. I felt the Hindoo’s eyes upon me again, and I turned to face him.

“I have no more,” he said; “only sandalwood.”

“But I don’t want sandalwood. Where can I get the other?”

“You cannot get it,” he replied, his eyes stirring into a dull, smolder¬ ing flame. “ Do you wish the sandal64


“No,” I answered shortly, and turned on my heel.

“Your soul!”

The words from behind me were low, passionate, menacing.

I whirled as if I had been struck. “My soul!” I cried, glaring at the East Indian, who stood facing me with arms folded across his breast. “Your soul shall pay!” he snarled. His eyes flamed an instant into mine, then the fire in them went out.

“It is just a saying in India. It means nothing. I only said my se¬ cret thoughts aloud. Pardon, sahib.”

“Oh,” I said; then I whirled and left the shop hastily.

1 hurried through the dripping rain to the restaurant, where I dined, my mind trying to analzye the pecu¬ liar effect which the oriental had upon me. It did not take much thinking to convince me that the Hindoo was a thorough rascal. I am familiar with hypnotism and I have more than once had different persons try to exercise this power over me. I have experi¬ enced the numbing clash of a power¬ ful will with my own, have felt my own mind struggle for mastery, never once to come out other than victor. So I knew that the East Indian had tried to hypnotize me, not only on this evening, but also on the first oc-

“Your soul shall pay!”

That trinket that I had broken! Was all that had happened, the dream and all, part of his revenge ? Had he created the beautiful girl in my mind just to torture me with her memory for the rest of my days? What a diabolical vengeance!

I returned to my house. I went immediately to my study. I sat down before the table and picked up the little oblong box. Tomorrow the box would be empty and then I would have it out with that evil red-eyed fellow.

I lifted the head from the bronze devil, and thrust the last two reddishbrown cubes of incense into the hol¬ low body. I was feverish with impa¬ tience. I felt as the opium fiend must feel while he prepares his drug.

I lighted the two cubes, and for a moment two eyes gleamed. Then one cube went out and I had to light it again. It did not burn well, but I got it to going fairly.

I put the head back into position. I watched smoke belch forth from the grinning mouth. I watched the two pinpoints of red, one intensely bright, the other smoldering, dying.

As I stared at the grinning face of the bronze devil a thought occurred to me. The face, the whole figure was familiar as if I had seen it somewhere. No, I had only heard of it! If I could just think a moment I could remem¬ ber all. Why must my mind wan¬ der? Oh, yes. My soul! The Hin¬ doo would have my soul! No, he would not! My soul should run from him so fast he would not be able to catch it!

The world became full of aromatic smoke. My senses dulled. My soul ran flying out into a pelting noisy space, through the gates of hell, where long-tailed devils struck at me, into the white heat of torment, through the icy cold of despair, and then into a haven of rest and comfort.


1 squatted before a door in the dark¬ ness. I had an automatic in my right hand. I was also conscious of something clasped in my left hand. I was waiting, watching, every sense alert.

There was someone in the room be¬ fore which I waited. This I knew. I was not afraid. My arm was steady. My aim would be sure.

A half hour passed, perhaps more. Then a scream from beyond the door. A sudden scream of fright, of mortal terror.

THE FLAMING EYES

I was on my feet, shaking the door, which was looked. I heard the scream

I laid the object clasped in my left hand carefully down near the door. I thrust my pistol into my belt. Then I ran back a few feet, turned, and lunged forward with all my weight upon the door. Once, twice, three times. At the fourth lunge the lock broke and I went hurtling into the

Lights flamed from chandeliers overhead.

Facing me stood the girl in shim¬ mering white night clothes. Behind her was a bed just vacated, while to the right were chairs, a dressing ta¬ ble, articles of ladies’ wearing apHer hair was disheveled, her eyes were large with fright.

“You screamed,” I said, looking at her, thinking more of her great beau¬ ty than of the dangers which her cry of terror might signify.

“You!” she cried.

She came to me, clasped her arms about me, clung to me like a little child.

“Tell me! What was it!” I in¬ sisted, putting an arm about her and patting her shoulder reassuringly.

“The—the thing!” she whispered. “The eyes! I saw them at the win¬ dow. I heard the window opening, saw the eyes looking in. I screamed, sprang from bed and turned on the lights. Then you came crashing at the door, came plunging in. How came you here!”

“I said I would come, would de¬ fend you,” I asserted, looking into her blue eyes and searching them for a sign of an answering love in their depths.

My gaze was so ardent that the girl’s eyes fell before my own. Sud¬ denly conscious of her dress she pulled away from me, picked up a silk robe

from a chair, and gathered it about her hastily.

“Where was it!” I asked, as she looked up at me again.

She pointed at the window at the foot of her bed. I started toward the window, and as I did so she put a hand on my arm and clung to me. We took half a dozen steps across the room.

Then there was sudden darkness. Intense, terrible, menacing!

“The lights!” cried the girl in my ear. “It has put out the lights! The thing! See! At the window!”

I put my arm about the girl and held to her convulsively. One flaming red eye, hot and intense as a living fire! And beside it the wavering glow of another eye, less intense, but dead¬ ly!

The eyes were moving, coming nearer!

The girl pulled out of my grasp, put both hands on my shoulders and

“Let us run! Flee!” she cried.

"I will stay! Fight!” I muttered, trying to shake her off.

But she put both hands upon my arm and forced me to run with her out of the room. Outside the door I stopped, groped in the darkness, and picked up the object I had laid down a few moments ago. Then the girl pulled me on. Swiftly along a car¬ peted hallway, down a broad staircase, across a wide room, stumbling past chairs and tables, through a second room whose door was wide, all in the pale light cast through windows from a cloudy sky outside.

We came to a flight of Bteps leading down into blackness. Down it we plunged together. I missed a step and went tumbling, rolling down the re¬ mainder of the flight. The girl came running after. She helped me to my feet, and we ran on again.

A Tale of Stark Terror Is

The HOUSE of FEAR

By ALBERT SEYMOUR GRAHAM

A HOUSE of silence, broken at times by a weird wailing as from the Pit; a house of dreams, gray in the moonlight, under the leprous-silvered finger of the moon, brooding now, a grim, gray for¬ tress of the accursed; the stronghold of the Beast.

Dense pines grew about it, and when the wind wailed among them, it met and mingled with an eery ululation rising as if muffled by many thicknesses of walls, to end with a quick shriek and a sudden hush, brok¬ en after a moment by the faint echo of a taunting laugh.

That laugh would have struck ter¬ ror to the swart soul of a lncivee, if lucivees have souls, for it was like an eldritch howling, faint and thin; like the thin, tinkling laughter of a fiend, without pity and without ruth.

Here, in the sanitarium of Dr. Helmholtz, there were secrets within secrets, walls within walls, downward as in Dante’s Seventh Hades, and from this monastery of the hopeless, there penetrated, on occasion, out¬ ward from its battlemented walls, wild, frantic laughter; but there was nothing demoniac about it, because it was the laughter of the insane.

But that other laughter, like a sound heard in dreams,—passers-by, if there were any such, hearing it, would shudder, and pass on. For the secret of that house of doom was ter¬ rible and grim; a secret, for him who might have guessed at it, to be whis¬ pered behind locked doors and with bated breath. And there had been

those who had whispered of the lost souls within those walls; and the whisper ran that they were, indeed, madmen who had not been always mad, but had become maniacs after their commitment to the bleak house within the wood.

Tn a bare cell, six feet by six—a 1 cubicle in which there was barely sufficient head room for a tall man to stand upright—a figure stood with its hand clenched upon the bars, star¬ ing outward at the grim wood visible to the south.

Carrold Baron, banker, had abode here in this living tomb three weeks; say rather, three centuries, in which, as in a nightmare of cold horror, he had been aware merely of a face, threc-pointed, bearded, the eyes active with a malign intelligence, the lips smiling always with the cold smile of death.

Twice a day the small panel in his cell door had slid backward without sound, to frame, in the opening, the face of Dr. Helmholtz, like a face without a body—and without a soul.

Carrold Baron, banker, knew that it was not a dream that would pass, because, on the second day, the head had spoken. Baron was scarcely a coward; he had fought like a baited grizzly when surprized in his house by the men who had brought him. under cover of the night, to this pris¬ on house. Now, at the voice, like the slow drip of an acid, Baron stared straight before him, with the gaze of a man who has abandoned hope.

THE HOUSE OP FEAR

“My dear Mr. Baron,” the voice had whispered, “the little matter of that check, if you please . . . you will make it out to ‘cash’ . . . Ah, that is good; I perceive you are—

It had not been the pistol in the lean, clawlike hand; nor even the eyes, brooding upon him with the imper¬ sonal, cold stare of a cobra; Carrold Baron might have refused if it had not been for the sounds that he had heard and the sights that he had seen when, taken at midnight from his cubicle, he had beheld the administra¬ tion of the cone. And, like Macbeth, with that one sight, and the sight of that which came after, he had “supped full of horrors,” until now, at the bidding of that toneless voice, he had obeyed. Three times there¬ after, at the command of his dark jailer, he had paid tribute; nor had he been, of all that lost battalion, the single victim, for there had been

Now, separated from him scarce a dozen feet, a girl with golden hair sat, huddled, eyes in a sightless staring upon the stone floor of her cell. Like Baron, she had not been mercifully killed; she had been saved for a fate unspeakable, beside which death would be a little thing. So far she had been treated decently enough; her cell was wide and airy, plainly but comfortably furnished; but as to that look in the gray-green eyes of the Master of Black Magic she was

There came a sudden movement in the corridor without: a panting, a snuffling, and the quick pad-pad of marching feet. The girl, her eye to the keyhole of the door, could see but dimly; she made out merely the sheet¬ ed figures, like grim, gliding ghosts, and a rigid figure, on the stretcher, moving silently on its rubber-tired

wheels. Then, at an odor stealing in¬ ward through the keyhole, she rcThat perfume had been siekishsweet, overpowering, dense and yet sharp with a faint, acrid sweetness: the odor of ether. And then, although she could not see it, a man in the next cell had risen, white-faced, from his cot, to sink back limply as the dark hand, holding that inverted cone, had swept downward to his face.

C arrold baron sprang to his feet as the narrow door swung open, to press backward against the win¬ dow-bars as the high priest of horror, followed by his familiars, cowled and hooded, entered with a slow, silent

The doctor spoke, and his voice was like a chill wind. "My friend, I bring you—forgetfulness. ... A brief lethe of hours. . . . And then, ah, then, you will be a new man, a man reborn, my friend. . . Now. . . ” Baron, his face gray with a sort of hideous strain, stared silent, whitelipped, as, at a low-voiced order, the attendants came forward.

The lean hand reached forward; it poised, darted, swooped, and in it was the cone. A choked gurgle, a strangled, sharp cry, penetrating outward in a vague shadow of clamor; and then silence, with the faint whisper of the wind among the pines, the brool of the rushing river, the faint, half-audi¬ ble footfalls passing and repassing in that corridor of the dead.

/"vnce —and it was never repeated— v ' a man came there from the cap¬ ital ; he had demanded to see the doc¬ tor’s patients. And as the investiga¬ tor stood there viewing with a faint, creeping horror the nondescripts pa¬ raded before him, gibbering, mouth¬ ing, in an inarticulate, furious babble.



a man had burst suddenly from the line with a strangled cry:

“Frank—don’t you know me? I"m Ba ron—Carrold! ’'

The voice was the voice of Baron, but the face—it was the face of an¬ other, totally unlike; there had been no possible resemblance. But the man had been—sane. The investigator was persuaded of that; he was suffering under a peculiar delusion, indeed, but

The man rushed forward then, bar¬ ing his arm: and there, on that thin, pitiful flesh, which had once been healthy and hard, there ran a eurious design in red. The investigator sucked in his breath as that telltale birthmark sprang, livid, under his gaze, for he had seen it before.

The doctor’s eyas narrowed to slits; somehow the man from the capital gained the impression that it was the first time he had seen that mark. But. the investigator could do nothing. Birthmarks can be duplicated. He waited then, in a eurious indecision, as the bearded doctor interposed suavely:

“Well, of course, commissioner, you ’re quite aware, or you should be, how it is; these paranoiacs arc noted for their delusions: they believe them¬ selves to be—someone else; and always a bank president, say, a famous actor, an author, a great general Now—Mr. Baron—you knew him, I believe?”

Beneath the silken tone there ran suddenly a hint of iron, of menace, veiled hut actual: the investigator felt it.

“This patient knew your name, of course,” the suave voice continued. “Poor fellow—we must be gentle with

And there the matter ended. Curi¬ ously enough, the man who had

claimed to be Banker Baron had, after that first burst of frenzied speech, kept silent. Perhaps that mor¬ dant gleaming in the doctor’s eyes had telegraphed a warning, a mes¬ sage, a command.

Nevertheless, the investigator, still dissatisfied, took another walk through the corridors and determined to find the thing that seemed to be wrong. Corridor after corridor he traversed, and found nothing amiss. But while going through a last corri¬ dor. lie saw a woman standing before a mirror, gazing into the face that ap¬ peared to licr, and laughing, laughing, laughing: but there was no mirth in that laugh.

XX/hen the investigator returned,

* ’ he looked at his own features in a glass, with the memory of that hid¬ eous laugh still ringing in his ears; he fancied suddenly beholding anoth¬ er’s face where his own should be, and wondered—wondered whether that shock would not deprive him of his reason. For the woman lie had seen, staring at her reflection in the glass, had had golden hair, pretty hands and an adorable figure, but—her face had been the rough, unshaven face of

But nothing could be done. The woman might have been born with the features of a man, but the investi¬ gator doubted it. Nevertheless, per¬ sonal opinions have no influence over law. and law sometimes upholds crimes that have never been brought to account.

The investigator went home, oddly shaken, to dream of a white face with staring eves which changed, even as he gazed, into the face of his long lost friend. Carrold Baron; to hear, even in his dream, a voice, and it was the voice of the living—and of the dead.

THE SALEM HORROR

Author of "The Plumtom Fnrmhous

W HEN the sightseeing ’bus from Boston carries tourists from the West and South through the crooked and historic streets of Salem, Massachusetts, the lecturer waves his megaphone toward a long, turtle-backed rise of land with the stereotyped announcement, “On your left, ladecs and gentlemun, is the famous gallows hill where witches were hanged in the Colonial

Just. that. A nineteen-word sen¬ tence, a craning of curious necks, a raising of perfunctorily interested eyes, and the cumbersome omnibus rumbles and bumps away on its home¬ ward trip, leaving behind the monu¬ ment of the most dreadful chapter in American history', a spot accursed to this day by the blood of innocent vic¬ tims of fanaticism, a landmark hear¬ ing testimony to the terrible confla¬ gration kindled by the effort of a bigoted, ignorant, self-righteous man to reassert his sway over the commun¬ ity and retain the pitiful salary of a parson in a small and none too thriv¬ ing Colonial church.

T et us push back the hands of the ■*- y clock two and a half centuries: Salem Village, small, but. even now

prosperous, clings to the rocky prom¬ ontory jutting Europeward into the Atlantic Ocean, a few substantial houses of clapboard, fewer mansions of brick, brought as ballast in ships from England, and a foursquare, white-doored church. Pour men, heavily cloaked against the shrewish October wind, stride determinedly through the narrow', unpaved street, talking earnestly. They are Joseph Parker, Joseph Hutchinson, Joseph Putnam and Daniel Andrews, all free¬ holders in Salem Village, appointed at a recent town meeting to consider wmys and means for adjusting the controversy raging between the Rev¬ erend Samuel Parris, pastor of Salem Village Church, and his congregation.

Tw’o years before, the Reverend Mr. Parris w'as called to the pulpit of Salem Village Church in an effort to heal the dissension cleaving the congregation. In settling in his posi¬ tion the reverend gentleman drove a hard bargain with his people, extract¬ ing in pay the last brass farthing the congregation could raise. Since his installation he has intrigued contin¬ ually for greater power in the com¬ munity. Failing to secure a deed to the parsonage property in his own name, he has set one faction of the



congregation against another, taking sides first with one side, then the other, till the little band of worship, ers is torn to pieces with factional strife.

From the window of his study in the manse, Mr. Parris sees the four selectmen striding down the street, and his sallow face reflects the misgiv¬ ings his heart feels. These men, sub¬ stantial citizens all, arc not to be browbeaten or bullied by any clergy¬ man, no matter how thunderous his words or violent his temper. They will surely suggest the emptying of his pulpit as the only means of set¬ tling the controversy.

Something must be done; a means must be found to unite the people in one common cause and divert their dislike from their pastor. Love? No, the Reverend Mr. Parris’ religion knows no love. He is a Fundamental¬ ist of the Fundamentalists, and, like his modem brethren of the same school, finds his favorite passages of Scripture among those which tell of the dreadful vengeance of the Al¬ mighty. Fear? Hatred? Perhaps. Those emotions sway men—and wom¬ en—more vigorously than anything else. But how; how ?

The reverend gentleman takes up his great, cedar-bound Bible and opens it at random. Advice, if not comfort, is to be found in its pages. He reads intently by the waning afttemoon sunshine, his long, crookednailed forefinger tracing the words as his eyes devour line after line. The twenty-seventh verse of the twentieth chapter of the Book of Leviticus: “And a man also or a woman that hath a familiar spirit, or that is a wizard, shall surely be put to death, their blood shall be upon them.”

Mr. Parris closes the Holy Book and paces his study floor, his head bent, his lean, knotty fingers locked behind his back. He meditates the text he has just read—“their blood shall be upon them.”

A mong other household effects, the Reverend Mr. Parris owned two servants, John Indian, a partially civ¬ ilized American aborigin, and Tituba, a halfbreed woman from the West In¬ dies, part Indian, part negro. Like most West Indian slaves, this woman laid claim to a knowledge of voodooism, or obea, pretending to tell for¬ tunes by palmistry and foretell the future by divination and communion with the spirits of the dead. Such things were roundly denounced and heavily penalized by the laws of the colony, which makes what followed doubly hard to explain.

During the winter of 1691-2, a cir¬ cle of young girls and women began meeting at the Reverend Mr. Parris’ home for the purpose of consulting Tituba and learning the secrets of palmistry and fortune telling. Those engaged in the forbidden pastime were Elizabeth Parris, age nine; Abigail Williams, seventeen; Ann Putnam, twelve; Mary Walcott, sev¬ enteen; Elizabeth Hubbard, seven¬ teen; Susannah Sheldon, eighteen; Elizabeth Booth, eighteen; Sarah Churchill, twenty, and several others in their late teens or early twenties.

Mr. Parris could not have been un¬ aware of these gatherings, or of their purpose, for two of the young women, Elizabeth Parris and Abigail Wil¬ liams, were members of his immediate family, and all the stances were held in his kitchen. Nevertheless, it does not appear that he forbade Tituba to teach the black arts to members of hie family and flock or denounced the un¬ lawful assemblies to the authorities. On the contrary, he seems to have ex¬ hibited a mildness and tolerance en¬ tirely at variance with his usual habit and the custom of the times and com¬ munity.

Winter ran its course and spring¬ time came, and with it a remarkable sequel to the meetings at Mr. Parris’ house. The girls and women who had studied with Tituba began behaving

THE SALEM HORROR


in a most unaccountable manner. Some of them would creep under chairs, tables or benches: others ut¬ tered strange and unintelligible words and cries; still others indulged in spasms and fainting fits, choosing the most public places to display their

Simple home remedies failing to re¬ lieve the children's strange illness, the village physician, a Dr. Griggs, was called in, and after making an exhaus¬ tive examination of the patients gave it as his opinion that they were be¬ witched. This was quite in accord¬ ance with medical ethics of the times, which permitted physicians to make the devil the excuse for their own in¬ ability to diagnose a case or effect a

The devil was no laughing-stock in the seventeenth century- He was a very real and personal fiend, devoutly believed in by all who called them¬ selves Christians, and was ever on the watch for some unwary soul. All the world was a sector on which the forces of good and evil contended un¬ remittingly, and, just as God chose His ministers, so the devil chose his to further his work among men. Holy Scripture declared there were such things as witches, and it was man’s bounden duty, as a good follower of the church, to kill off the wicked brood wherever found. So it was in Salem Village in 1692, and the doc¬ tor’s announcement of witchcraft set the superstitious people afire. The “ afflicted ” children, differing not at all from children today, proceeded to make the most of their position in the public eye, and acted more outlandishly than before.

A bigail williams, Mr. Parris’ own niece, rose in church one Sunday morning and shouted to her uncle, “Now stand up and name thy text!”

All eyes were turned on her in hor¬ rified amazement; but Mr. Parris, who had never before been known to

let a slight to his ministerial dignity go unrebuked, looked mildly at her, and announced his sermon would be based on the eighteenth verse of the twenty-second chapter of the Book of Exodus: “Thou shalt not suffer a witch to live.”

Sermons in those days were not gaged by the minute hand of the preacher’s watch, but by the sands of an hour glass on the pulpit rail; and it was not till the glass had been twice reversed that Mr. Parris concluded his impassioned harangue. He traced the abominable crime of witchcraft from Biblical days to the founding of the Massachusetts Bay Colony, ever reverting to his text and urging the congregation to perform their reli¬ gious duty and put all witches to

At the conclusion of his discourse the little church was filled with an hysterical mob, ready to tom upon any suspected person and execute him on the spot. And the excitement was raised to fever pitch when one of the “bewitched” girls suddenly rose to her feet and cried, “Look where she sits upon the beam! ”

“Who? Who?” asked the congre¬ gation excitedly, for they, of course, saw no one seated on the ceiling

Another girl, also eager to be no¬ ticed, rose with a wild shriek and ex¬ claimed, “There is a yellow bird sit¬ ting on the minister’s hat!”

“Where? Where?” the bewildered people cried, for the yellow bird was, naturally, as invisible to them as the witch on the cross-beams.

When meeting was over, the chil¬ dren’s parents pressed them to name the wicked persons who had be¬ witched them. But here the girls be¬ came vague, contenting themselves with rolling their eyes, uttering terri¬ fied cries and pointing distractedly at terrible sights, visible only to themWEIRD TALES

npeE afflicted children were hurried to the parsonage, where their par¬ ents besought Mr. Parris to pray for them. Dismissing the elders, the min¬ ister locked himself in his study with the bewitched persons. At the end of an hour, he opened the door and an¬ nounced the children had accused Sarah Good and Sarah Osbum as the witches who had cast the spell upon

Sarah Good was a poor, friendless old woman, subsisting largely on the charity of her neighbors. Sarah Osburn was nearing eighty years of age, and had been confined to bed by a lingering illness for several weeks.

Both of these hapless creatures were dragged to the church, where a tribunal of clergymen, hastily sum¬ moned by Mr. Parris, bullied and hectored them for hours on end. No third degree imposed by modern po¬ lice ever approached the methods em¬ ployed by these godly men in attempt¬ ing to extort confessions from two distracted and friendless old women. But the prisoners stood firm in main¬ taining their innocence.

Then it was that Mr. Parris took counsel with the bewitched girls again, exhorting them to name some other witch responsible for their agony. Soon he returned with the scandalous intelligence that Tituba, his own slave, had been denounced by the “afflicted children.”

Tituba was haled before the meet¬ ing, but her terror was so great that no intelligent answers could be ex¬ tracted from her. She was paroled in the custody of her master, who promised his reverend colleagues he would reason with her and impress her with the error of her ways. Years later, when she had been sold to an¬ other master, Tituba, then an old woman, told of terrible beatings ad¬ ministered by her reverend owner, beatings merciless and unceasing, un¬ til she willingly agreed to confess her¬

self a witch and implicate Goody Osburn and Goody Good in her confesBefore a court composed of John Hathorn and Jonathan Corwin, the two leading magistrates of the neigh¬ borhood, assisted by Mr. Parris and several other eminent divines, Tituba gave her testimony. The devil, she said, had appeared to her and asked her to serve him. She agreed to do his bidding, and was told to attend a witches’ meeting in a near-by wood. Together with Sarah Good and Sarah Osbum, she had mounted a wagon pole and been whisked through the air with the speed of the wind. In the heart of a deep, dark grove, the location of which she was unable to give, the devil awaited them in the form of a huge black man with one eye in the center of his forehead. She and the other two women had signed their names in his book with a pen dipped in their own blood, kissed him on an unusual part of his anatomy, and acknowledged themselves his servants forevermore.

All this time the “afflicted chil¬ dren” had been keeping up an inces¬ sant noise, screaming, groaning and writhing on the floor. When Goody Osburn’s poor old hands twitched with nervousness, the children de¬ clared they suffered agonies, for she was pinching them. WTien Sarah Good brought her toothless gums to¬ gether in senile terror, the shameless little wretches shrieked out that they were being bitten.

Poor, bedridden Sarah Osbum showed conclusively that she could not have attended any such meeting as that described by Tituba, for she had been confined to her home with illness at the time she was supposed to be attending the assignation. That, the court decided, was all the more proof of her witchcraft. Only a witch could be in two places at once, and, since Tituba had testified Sarah Osbum was present at the meeting

im

it WMSuppo^d! 0 iho a wUrfelMnt°o

The second of Seabury Quinn’s true tales of witchcraft will describe the accusations of evil made by our Puritan an¬ cestors against Giles and Martha Corey, whose mem¬ ory has been preserved in Longfellow’s poemdrama. The spectacular death of the “stub¬ born wizard” Giles Corey beneath a beam, and the hanging of his wife Martha on Gallows Hill, belong to the darkest period of America’s history. In WEIRD TALES next month, on sale at all news stands March First

Bitter Hatred\ Romance, and dick Poison Give ‘Tang to This Tale of the New IVor Id

BRIGHT EYES OF ADVENTURE

By WILLIS KNAPP JONES

L EANING against the barred win¬ dow, Celestina looked as far J down the darkened street as she

“Still he delays, my lady,” she commented, dropping the cnrtain back into place and looking around.

The fan of the Countess de Torre did not pause in its slow, languorous

SW “HeTl come, never fear.” “Perhaps he has learned that you

“Hush!” the countess commanded, slapping shut her fan. “Hush, Celcstina! Our walls here in Peru are thick, but they have windows. And the spies of the viceroy are every¬ where. He must not catch even a whisper of what awaits him.”

The elderly housekeeper sighed and for an instant studied the countess in her black dress and high comb.

“You are very sure of your prey,” she remarked.

“Very,” the younger lady agreed, and then, as though she did not think longer of so unimportant a matter, she settled more firmly into place a tiny rosebud above her left ear.

“And yet, it seems almost a pity that he must be killed.”

“Have I not told you to hush?” cried the countess with a tang in her voice that betrayed her tense nerves. “Do not dare to weaken. You have


"Yes, and I’ll keep my oath. I loved your husband—loved him when he was not cruel to you. That was why I vowed. Yet I can’t help think¬ ing of the viceroy, too. Did you notice him this morning, outside the cathe¬ dral when he stopped me to find where you lived ? Not a finer man in all his train. He has no wife, cither, and now that he seeks your friendship, who knows what may happen? To be the lady of the highest representa¬ tive of the crown in New Spain is no small honor, my lady.”

“Had it not been for him, I’d not be thinking of husbands now. He killed mine. He made me widow and I’ll make him—”

“But he loves you. It was in his eyes for all the world to read today.”

The countess drew herself up proudly.

“Loves? What has that to do with me? He did not love my husband.”

“Nor did you. Often I have heard you confess that. Yet his death gilds his life and so you cry for revenge.”

"Pride demands it, and the honor of the Torre family.”

Celestina shrugged.

“Pride ruled the viceroy’s actions, too. He was protecting the honor of Spain in her richest colony. If the count, your husband, had had his de¬ sire, Potosi would have become a free city, and that stream of silver that crosses Panama to become the lifesm~ mmsm

T HE .‘For^aU^Ts^tisdora^that is

mm

SlTLfifThcydarcd'" h '° W

It is the wine that spices my life.”

h«;S*S?wS£»ei

it

mmmi

jest? Is it that you would have me

amdo^to^ect^rrmust'he


The countess looked at him shrewdly.

“How much do you know about me, you who claim you know nothing?”

“I know that you arc beautiful, and beauty speaks a language so absorb¬ ing that other voices of the world go unheeded beside it. But tell me, what is your name? What shall I call

“Does that matter?’’

The viceroy shrugged.

“No, names are nothing; and yet it is my whim to have a name for you. I’ll call you Rosa for the rose that nestles in your hair, and you shall call me Jose.”

The countess, who had dropped into a comfortable chair, all red and gold, tapped on her knee with her fan.

“Another whim,” she smiled. “One brought you through dark streets where danger stalks, another—”

“If love be timid, it is not true.”

“Yet love should not be foolhardy,

A smile crossed the viceroy’s face. “But I have a guard in this house that you know nothing about.”

Try as she would, the woman could not conceal the start of surprize nor the quick glance of suspicion with which she swept the apartment.

“Oh, that is well. I was afraid your whim might prove dangerous.”

‘ ‘ Perhaps. But danger is my whim, too. It thrills me. It keeps me alert. Sometimes my very life has hung on my alertness. Once I saved my life because I heard and interpreted a whisper in another room. Just a laugh that I knew ought not to be there made me take steps to protect myself. And once it was a look in a man’s eye—my own servant—as he set a dish of garbanzos before me. I made him eat them. He died in an hour. And up to that moment I had trusted him.”

“So you always take precautions?

“Not always. Not here or now. You know the proverb: ‘From him whom I trust, may God preserve me. From him I trust not, I shall preserve my¬ self.’ Yet why should we dally in such serious matters? Let me, in¬ stead, read a poem I wrote to you that first day I saw you, when by happy chance a rose from your hair fell before me.”

“Willingly. But let me first call for wine. A friendly cup will make your words flow easier. ’ ’

She clapped her hands and Celestina appeared. A word of command and the servant left the room to re¬ turn almost immediately with a tray and two glasses.

T he countess decanted the wine carefully from the cobwebbed bottle and gave one crystal goblet to the viceroy, who sat across the tiny serving table from her.

Jose lifted it to the light.

“A rare old vintage, that I know,” he cried.

“Sealed ere Pizarro and his conquistadores sailed for this New World,” she agreed.

He turned it, looking at it from all

“Sealed in those old days when they had the secret of capturing the sunshine and the spirit of spring and imprisoning them in bottles. Nay, I swear it is almost the color of this ruby in my ring.”

He tried to slip the ring off to show her, but it eluded his grasp and flew beyond her to the floor. The countess turned to look for it. As she did so, Jose emptied the contents of the gob¬ let into his leather boot, then he raised the glass to his lips.

“Like a draft of the gods,” he exclaimed.

She straightened up with the ring in her fingers, just in time to see him take the empty goblet from his mouth. An expression of triumph surged into her eyes.

BRIGHT EYES OF ADVENTURE


“Will you have more. Excellen¬ cy?”

“It sends a strange feeling through me,” Jose commented. “I feel—I cannot tell how I feel—youthful and happy. No, I want no more. I want only to hear you talk to me, my Rosa, to read you my poem, to let you know I love you and to hope—” he was fumbling'at his jacket—“to hope you love me, too.”

He unrolled the paper and looked at it. Then he shook his head impa-

“Strange, strange,” he muttered. “I feel—bewitched. As though gray vapors came between my eyes and the soul of me here set down in words. Are the candles growing dim or do I —bah! ’tis nonsense. Sleepy when I would be keenest.”

“If it is sleep, Excellency, then just relax. It can be only a passing faintness. Perhaps a taste more of wine will clear your head.”

“No,” he said faintly, then, his words coming slowly, “Wine—never —clears—my—head. I—I—”

His head dropped forward on his chest. Like a shadow, the countess glided to a cabinet in the far comer of the room.

“ At last!” she exulted, opening the door and stooping before it.

“But counteBs!” came a quiet voice which made her whirl, dagger in

The viceroy, sitting erect, was mo¬ tioning to her with one hand.

She backed against the cabinet.

“Countess, what is it you seek? Surely not treachery against one you invited to your house.”

“Then you—you knew?”

He smiled easily.

“Did not your servant say the walls have ears? And do you think your threat against me would bury itself in your bosom?”

“Oh, brave viceroy!” she sneered. “No wonder you rant about your love

of danger, no wonder you boasted of protection, you who were safe all the time. Well, call in the guard you have, send me to join my husband.”

“But lady, these are not things I trust, protection and the guards out¬ side. I have a more potent protector in this house than a regiment of my soldiers. Before they reached me, I might be dead a score of times. But with it, I am safe.”

“What is this charm, the shield that makes a braggart of you?”

Before he replied, he toyed with the stem of the glass for an instant.

“And was this truly drugged, senorat And did I guess correct^ that it would put me to sleep? I could only guess because I did not taste it. It is in my boot.”

As she made no reply, the viceroy continued.

“Since you will not guess, I’ll tell you what it is that makes me so sure you will never do me harm. I love you, I trust you, and so no harm will befall me here.”

A burst of scornful laughter an¬ swered him.

“Trust? Fie! Trust with a guard of soldiers within call and two feeble women against you?”

“Lady, you mistake me.”

He leaned earnestly toward her.

“See, I shall show you how I trust ou. Here is the whistle with which

can summon my men. One blast upon it would bring them before its echoes died away in the darkness. And you shall take it.”

He dropped it on the table before her. Still she sneered.

“How many other signals have you, should this fail?”

“None, I swear it. I have no other defense but the greatest of all, my love for you.”

Seeing the disbelief still lingering in her eyes, he leapt up. “Would you have further proof? I’ll give it to you. Any test you can devise. ”

sgsaSSSSs

..5",’S , EtaSi"“fEt,';™i

“I have perfect confidence in yon,

igi

§.mm

“Oh, I can’t,” she sobbed. Then,

nSriShTd.,^ *”

mesa’s



The Englishman looked serious.

“They can—if I succeed in keep¬ ing that devil, Abu-Rashid, away from them. He, you know, has learned, somehow, of our quest. And he, as full of superstition as a hound dog is of fleas, has set himself to frus¬ trate our plans, simply because he and the rest of the Bedouins believe some deity threw it there.”

For a time the men smoked in si¬ lence. Dean spoke first: ‘ ‘ When did you last see Abu-Rashid ?”

Hunt moved uneasily.

“Yesterday, at dusk, when you and the blacks were beating up a waterhole. He came tearing into camp on a camel and as good as ordered me to go back” (Hunt bit his pipe-stem sav¬ agely) “as good as told me to quit— now—after all the grilling agony of the past months. Now, when success

He broke off abruptly and sprang to his feet.

“Look!” he cried excitedly. “Un¬ less it is a mirage, I see a train of camels creeping over the sand, there, this side of the well of Abul-Ala!”

Dean raised his immense bulk from the sand, joined his companion and looked in the direction indicated.

“It’s no mirage,” he said tersely. “Camels, a lot of ’em.”

“Is it Abu-Rashid?” Hunt grated.

Dean ducked beneath the tent-flap, reappearing almost instantly with a pair of field glasses in hand. Hur¬ riedly adjusting them, he swept the

“Yes,” he answered, after a brief survey; “it’s the sheik himself, and about fifty henchmen.”

The camels, amid a yellow dust cloud, drew nearer; soon, Abu-Rashid at the head of the train, mounted up¬ on a dromedary, could be distin¬ guished easily by the naked eye.

TTunt’s present perilous quest into the interior of Arabia had been actuated by the story of the wan¬ dering Bedouin, Al-Abu. The lucid

though fanciful and highly embel¬ lished tale of the meteorite had cap¬ tured the geologist’s interest. During the World War he, Hunt, had carried arms in his country’s defense. But at the close of the struggle he had set out, hoping, in the interest of science, to locate the stone.

With arms folded across his chest, eyes piercingly intent upon the beard¬ ed Bedouins, Hunt stood watching their approach.

Shortly the soft thud of camels’ feet came to the waiting men. As the blacks caught sight of the Arabs they sprang up, chattering like monkeys, their apathy gone, action superseding the listlessncss of the moment before.

Abu-Rashid and his cortege swept up, circled the camp and, with, mur¬ derous spears upraised, came to a dramatic stop.

But the grandstand play of the desert men failed to intimidate either Hunt or Dean. The Englishman stood at attention, his gray eye vigi¬ lant for the treachery he expected.

Apparently the Bedouins’ visit was one of peace. With a winning smile wreathing his clean-cut lips, only half hidden by the dense, black beard, the sheik spoke. ' ‘ The blessing of Allah be upon thee and all who dwell in thy tents,” he said in a mu¬ sical, softly modulated voice.

Hunt and Dean bowed.

“The blessing of Allah be upon thee and all who dwell in thy tents,” responded the Englishman. “Will the great one of Arabia honor my poor abode by alighting and partak¬ ing of my humble fare?”

Abu-Rashid vaulted from the back of the huge, evil-eyed beast and threw his spear upon the sand; his hench¬ men, like well-trained soldiers, fol¬ lowed his example. Hunt gave a crisp order to a black, who scuttled off to do his master’s bidding.

“The visit of the great one of Ara¬ bia is, indeed, an honor,” began Hunt. “I am overwhelmed at his

old

sssas&as

a

sxassla

You arc not

" .E

afs's^rssffirs

§|gp^i

“I’ve "nothing more to say. Only —I’m with you.”

r pl^S^. B : •^.r* “in

2? JSJB.-5

&s,^sif“ y «ar ,lOTtos

=€#«§§

Hgggs

^ Abu-Rashid broke rudely in upon

THE BURNING WRATH OF ALLAH

the twinkle in her eye, I believe she deserves it."

“We are a simple folk,” continued Abu-Rashid softly. “We molest no one who has the wisdom to leave us in peace. But, to the meddler, to the one who invades our land to desecrate it—better were he dead. Our mercy is long suffering, but our vengeance is swift. Allah abides with us and strengthens our arm. Wo, wo, to the despoilers!”

Hunt looked his host squarely in the eye.

"That is a challenge, is itl” he asked evenly. “You, Abu-Rashid, know why I have come into the desert. You remarked, but a moment ago, that you had traveled. You intimated that you were a broad-minded man. If so, if you understand the motives of the outside world, why are you so bitterly opposed to my mission?”

The Arab’s voice was but a silver murmur. Ignoring all but Hunt’s last question, he answered: “Because you are sacrilegious. The Burning Wrath of Allah must remain hidden in the sand. Were it to be brought to light, a fiery plague would sweep through the land. Allah, Himself, buried it there to subdue its heat. It is just as hot today as it was when Allah cast it down. But, being hidden in the earth, it has nothing to feed upon. It lies there, its heart red and angry, waiting for some fool to sweep aside the smothering layers of sand, to let the breeze of heaven play upon it that it may again burst into flame and send desolation upon the earth. For ages the big ball of fire has lain where Allah, in his wrath, cast it. When time ceases it must still lie there. If any man seeks to disturb it, he courts death.”

“Oh, but see here, Abu-Rashid,” expostulated Hunt, “that is all tOmmyrot. There is no heat in that stone. It is merely a mass of what is known to science as meteoric iron. It was not thrown out of heaven by Allah.


It is simply a fragment of some body revolving round the sun. Its flaming appearance was caused by its passage through the earth’s atmosphere. Fric¬ tion, not Allah’s wrath, caused it to become luminous, fiery, as you say.”

“You have heard,” quietly replied the Bedouin.

“So,” cried Hunt, losing patience, “the fiat has gone forth? Well, if there is such a meteorite in the desert I am going to find it, Allah notwithThe face of Abu-Rashid became convulsed with passion. But it passed and Dean, ever watchful, marveled at the desert man’s wonderful display of self-control.

The Arab pointed toward a tent.

“Come. Shahrazad is setting

A constraint had fallen on the three men. Hunt, already ashamed of his flareup, sat moodily eating such food as the girl placed before him. Dean, because he was young and his blood red, was romancing with Shahrazad who, once, in setting bread before him, touched, with her slim brown hand, his own. Billy felt a pleasur¬ able thrill go through him at the con¬ tact, and, raising his eyes, he sur¬ prized a smile in the dusky orbs of the Arab girl. Thus encouraged, the American smiled back and covertly nodded toward the well of Abul-Ala.

A fter the simple meal, the sheik and Hunt again renewed the sub¬ ject of the meteorite. With all the power and knowledge at his command the Englishman endeavored to con¬ vert the Arab to his point of view, to win his co-operation. But AbuRashid was adamant. Science, geolo¬ gy, what were they as opposed to the will of Allah? Nothing—less than

nothing.

The argument became heated. At its height Hunt missed Dean. He was not in sight. But, beyond the vision of Abu-Rashid, the Englishman disWEIRD TALES

covered his friend engrossed in con¬ versation with Shahrazad!

Hunt stood up.

“Then,” he said evenly, “I am to understand that you oppose me. That you, claiming to be an enlightened man, knowing the exact spot where the meteorite lies buried, will not, even in the cause of science, aid me!”

“Son of an infldel,” cried AbuRashid, “thou hast spoken!”

He arose, clapped his hands and to the slave who answered gave an order in Arabic. Hunt, who possessed a working knowledge of the language, smiled, walked outside and called

“We, or at least I, have outstayed our welcome,” he said. “Abu-Rashid has ordered our mounts.”

The way back to camp was trav¬ ersed in silence. Hunt, engrossed by thoughts of his open rupture with Abu-Rashid, had small stomach for words. Dean, too, sank into a brown study and rocked along on the camel, wordless. But, to judge from the whimsical twist of his lips, his musings were pleasing.

Far into the night Hunt lay staring out across the moonlit plains. Some¬ where beneath that flood of silvery light a hyena howled eerily and a jackal pack yapped in answer. At the sound the Englishman shuddered. After a while he arose, lighted his pipe, and carefully reviewed the whole circumstance. In his own mind he knew that the story of the meteor¬ ite was true, that somewhere within, or at least near, the oasis where AbuRashid stood guard, the coveted aero¬ lite lay hidden.

The Arab was wily. He had taken up his stand at the well of Abul-Ala merely to keep Hunt off. There were both water and pasturage in abun¬ dance. Months must necessarily elapse before the Bedouins would have to strike camp. It was, therefore, to be a game of waiting.

But Hunt could be subtle and pa¬ tient, too. If all else failed he would, apparently, submit to the dictates of the nomad. Meanwhile there was Shahrazad, the dutiful daughter of Abu-Rashid. Perhaps Shahrazad— Hunt rolled himself in his blanket and slept.

O minous trouble clouds loomed large on the horizon. The first indication of Abu-Rashid’s active in¬ terference came to light the day fol¬ lowing the sheik’s break with Hunt. It took the form of open revolt among the servants. But Hunt, old cam¬ paigner that he was, understood the working of the Arab’s mind, and upon discovering his personal slave in close conversation with one of AbuRashid’s henchmen, shot the black through the heart and ordered the body cast into the desert. That night, thoroughly subdued, the negroes sat silent, listening to the screams of hye¬ nas on the desert.

The next night but one, Hunt sur¬ prized a Bedouin snooping about among the camels. With a round English oath the geologist slapped the Arab’s face, and sent him scurrying back to his treacherous master with bullets kicking up the sand around his naked feet.

From that night Hunt and Dean divided the watch.

Hunt grew restless at the enforced idleness. By nature he was progres¬ sive. Action, though fraught with danger, was to him the spice of life. Therefore, when the moon, which had been at its full and shining all night, began to wane, when the darkness grew like black velvet and the danger of detection nil, Hunt, who had been maturing a plan, decided to put it in¬ to execution.

The lure of the Burning Wrath of Allah was tremendous. The thought of its nearness obsessed the geologist. As he left his own camp and stealthily negotiated that of the Bedouins, the

} WRATH OP ALLAH

i§g|f 5

3 f?ri&ss^ |S£SHSsS 3=';25£|““2 :

iSSrS"3“S?l sS® " ” “ ] ° rSa-fsH™*

ZSk^'^^nfSn Ss—*

gSSSSsil^ss



“Shahrazad will not have to be here to see—him,” she said softly. “But he won’t forget.”

Turning swiftly, the Arab girl dis¬ appeared in the shadows of the palms.

A hot breath swept in over the plain, the advance guard of the simoom which was, even then, twist¬ ing the sand into swirling spirals across the desert. Watching through the glasses the progress of the storm, Hunt stood motionless.

“My God!” gasped the American. “This heat is the worst ever. If it gets any—”

Hunt, his face a gray mask, inter¬ rupted him.

‘ ‘ The blow will hit us in a few min¬ utes. When it does see that your face is protected,” he advised quietly. Dean mopped his brow.

“Hope this little flurry won’t an¬ nul our scouting party tonight,” he growled.

“It won’t. I promised Shahrazad we’d be there. And we will.”

Dean, whose eyes had never left

breath. The spectacle was stupen¬ dous. A solid wall of sand seemed to have arisen, and like a vast flood of yellow water it came hurtling down upon the camp.

Hours later, when the simoom had vented its fury, the adventurers crawled from beneath the protecting howdahs and reconnoitered the camp. The negroes, accustomed to the des¬ ert’s vagaries, had suffered no misNight. was closing in. Hurriedly the men ate the food prepared and set before them by the blacks.

Together they set out. The recent storm had drifted and piled the loose sand, changed landmarks and made travel almost impossible. But the dromedaries jogged onward without guidance on the part of their riders.

“Let them have their heads,” ad¬ vised Hunt. “Set your course by the

Dean, in after days, could not say how long they were in making the trip. Hours passed slowly. Time seemed to stand still.

Hunt suddenly drew rein.

“We are almost there,” he whis¬ pered. “Dismount—we will leave the camels here and go on afoot.”

Stealthily they approached the oar sis. Suddenly the date-palms grow¬ ing about the well of Abul-Ala sprang out of the enshrouding gloom. Hunt laid his hand on Dean’s arm.

‘ ‘ Stay here, ’ ’ he whispered. “ There may be treachery. In the event that anything goes wrong, get back to eamp and notify the garrison at Aden. There Is no use both of us getting in bad.”

“See here,” angrily began Dean, “what do you think I am?”

Hunt’s hand sought and found that of the American.

‘ ‘ Listen, buddy, we ’ve been through a lot together. I’ll never forget— France, and ‘No Man’s Land,’ and the time you got me through the en¬ tanglements. You ask me what I think you are. Well, words, at a time like this, aren’t much. But there’s one that’s about right. And that’s— pal. And a pal never questions. He just goes on blindly trusting. Am I right?”

Dean’s throat constricted. Tears smarted in his eyes. Ay, pals they had been. Pals they were.

“Yes,” he said shortly; “you’re right.”

For a long minute hand gripped hand. Then, almost before he realized it, Billy Dean was standing alone, be¬ neath the shadow of the palms.

For a long, long time he waited, but though he strained his ears for the slightest noise, not the faintest murmuF of sound came to him.

Eventually the darkness thinned. Long streaks of flamboyant color spread upward across the sky. Dawn, rose and pearl-gray, came stealing over the desert. Stars paled, flickered

§|p™ IMP

£^= £TJ£=K gsiff*

sHfS'SH.rS i&pr^s'Tia:

P Thc d ‘feverish light had come back “Conftidon'^ed. In a heteroto Dean’s eyes. Looking over the des- geneous .mass officers, men and serTHE BURNING WRATH OP ALLAH


The state of the negroes bordered on frenzy. Ignorant, superstitious, but a step above the beasts of the field, they were thrown into the wildest tuConjectures were rife. Even among the officers an uncanny atmosphere was apparent.

Dean sat, head bent, ear turned toward the desert. Sometimes his lips moved. Once the doctor, pausing near, caught the word “pals”, and, with a troubled look in his eyes,

At dawn the march was again taken up. With water jugs filled and stom¬ achs cheered by food, both men and officers were prepared to belittle the occurrence of the previous night.

That day the men, hot, dusty and sweat-caked, drove their mounts to the limit of endurance. Night found them camped in a depression between two sand dunes.

Dean and the officers sat apart, smoking. Borne upon the night wand came the yapping of a pack of jackals. The captain spoke: “Listen! Did you ever hear anything like that I The whole pack seems to be chasing their prey.”

“And they don’t, as a rule, do that,” remarked the lieutenant. “They must be ravenous to attack a living creature. They feast, mostly, on carrion.”

The captain knocked the ashes from his pipe. "Let’s turn in—perhaps to¬ night will bring us better rest than last.”

The camels, in a wide circle, lay on the sand, peacefully chewing their cuds, giving forth contented little grunts, happy, perhaps, to be freed of the cumbersome howdahs, to rest after their grilling trek.

A YELLOW gleam flecked the east¬ ern sky. Dean, again waking suddenly, looked at the illuminated dial of his watch. It was 3 o’clock. For six hours he had slept.

Cautiously he arose. The waning moon peeped over the rim of the des¬ ert and the stars twinkled brightly in the cloudless sky. The scene, though desolate, held a certain rugged gran¬ deur, and though Dean had never been a religious man, he now stood with bared head and silently admitted the greatness of the Creator.

While he stood, head bent, eyes dark with the mystery of the thing called life, he heard again the faint yap-yapping of the jackal pack. Rap¬ idly the sound grew louder until a confusion of snarls, barks and growls

Walking to the top of one of the dunes, he looked out over the plain. The moon had risen swiftly and now flooded the vast expanse with its pene¬ trating white light. As the American looked, his heart seemed to stand still. A rushing sound, as of many waters, filled his ears. A blindness shut out the moonlight, the desert, the jackal pack and the hideous thing, insane with fright and the fear which drove it on. Headlong he pitched forward on the sand.

A yell of mortal agony jerked the entire camp awake. Again the hideous sound of the night before, half scream, half squeal, shot terror to each heart. Again the rapid thudthud of hoofs on sand sent the men into a panic of dread.

The thing was again rampaging about the camp.

The captain came staggering over the sand, his face drawn, his eyes bulging. In his left hand he sup¬ ported his mutilated right arm, from which the flesh had been stripped. As he neared the center of the camp the thing came thundering up, squealing, lips drawn back from its hideous teeth, from which still dangled the quivering blood-dripping flesh of the officer’s arm.

The men, sleep-dazed, stood para¬ lyzed by fear. The gap between the captain and the creature grew mosrsWs™S ,, “'“

“Drop!" jdM the

g«££S2r£S

Jt*F%£ZJ£& 2Wj* i"™i»l; y h S,„X«,i , ' i * u ‘

sssSSil

..^ 33 '^'“

•srs:

. 3 .

SiSSi^ss

ESrHsaSs 1 * 5 JS * “ * te - A —'

±~^*£&F«*%!rs; ^ A .".«i i-"' 4 d “'*

sTSSHr^ £rS^“S

■Siltiii

A Different Story, Off the Beaten Path, Is This Tale of a Match That Fulfilled Its Destiny

The Thin Match

By HENRY S. WHITEHEAD

Author of “Sea Change,” u The Fireplace ” etc.

S HE began her life as a match along with several hundred mil¬ lion near relatives of the great family of pitch-pine, in the factory of the Emerald Match Company, of Scranton, New Jersey.

She had not realized her inferiority until she was shut up tightly in the close quarters of what was to he for a long time her home. Fate placed her in that particular kind of bos which was labeled as a “Product of Finland, Average Contents Sixty Sticks.” There was also other print¬ ed information on the box-label, couched in some Scandinavian lan¬ guage for anyone who might be able

Life in a family, even one averag¬ ing sixty members, is a decidedly dif¬ ferent- matter from being one item in a phalanx, a horde, of hundreds of millions, all exactly alike. Just here was where the thin match’s troubles began. She was different. In her ease it was not a mere slip of the ma¬ chine. It was natural depravity. She had grown a trifle too close to the bark in the original tree. Along one of her slim sides there was a. brown streak, which set her off from the others like a touch of the tar brush. Then, she was thin—altogether too thin for a respectable match. Exact conformity to type is expected among matches. Her inconsiderable cubic area was rather less than half what it should have been, and besides all

this, her head had a decided, an un¬ mistakable, hitch to one side.

Her box, along with fourteen gross of precisely similar boxes, was shipped to a Nashville jobber, and she learned next to nothing of this world’s experiences until her box, with twenty-three others, was placed one sunny morning in a ccnt-in-theslot machine on a eigar counter in Chattanooga.

Here she got her first intimation that she was different. It was very close quarters—would be, of course, until the box found a purchaser and her box-mates began to go out one by one to fulfil their destiny. She be¬ gan to receive cool jostles, cold shoul¬ ders, from the other matches, her par¬ ticular near neighbors. Here, too, she had some experience of coal smoko; rather premature, but inevi¬ table in Chattanooga.

One memorable day there came the familiar snick of an inserted cent and the rasp of the lever, and her box dropped out and went into the pocket of a young man who had bought it to light cigarettes. There was wild excitement and no little speculation among the matches. They were like troops on the very verge of an action. The young man gave them plenty of action. He used the first thirteen matches very quickly, which made a good deal more room in the box, and then there was a long undisturbed period while the box remained in the



But there was no way to regulate these chances. A match could only wait and hope, and the thin match waited and hoped with a good cour¬ age, resolved to light quickly and burn as clearly and steadily as she possibly could, if ever her chance should come.

Pete, it seemed, had no particular use for the remaining matches in this box. He had, in fact, quite forgotten them. For the box, very weak and wobbly now, had been packed inside the pocket of a jacket which Pete had replaced with a sweater a day out from New York and placed inside a gripsack. Pete was on board a ship now, a ship bound to Labrador, and he was using old-fashioned sulfur matches to light his pipe against the wind up on deck.

It occurred to the thin match that she might never get her chance, even though the box should be resurrected, because she was quite out of sight. Even if someone opened the box again, she was wedged in so tightly that she might not even be seen. Well, there was no use in borrowing trou¬ ble ! She knew she could not regulate the universe. She could only wait, and so she waited, and waited. . .

T was more than four months be¬ fore the crushed and battered old box, so worn and greasy now that the printing on the cover could hardly have been read by even the most learned Scandinavian, was brought to light again in Pete’s cabin on the upper reaches of the Nasquapee.

It was a desperate day of still cold. The thermometer had sunk and sunk for the past several weeks. It was too cold now for any more snow to fall, but Pete was snowed in.

That sound behind him was the scratching of a lynx’s claws, a lynx which had dug down through the snow to the lean-to, braced in with river-bottom rocks—great, flat rocks, outside the hut—the lean-to where

Pete kept his spare provisions against this commonest of sub-Arctic set¬ backs: being snowed in. Pete had plenty of provisions, both inside the hut and out there in the handy leanto, covered in. The lynx had be¬ sieged him now for two days and nights.

He had plenty of food, and he might have shot the lynx at any time. But he dared not shoot the lynx. He dared not shoot the lynx because he had one cartridge left, and one only. The great ravenous animal, with the deadly hunger-courage of the far North, had utterly put aside all his natural fear of Man. Pete could thrust his rifle against the satiny black fur which showed through the chinks of the hut and blow it to pieces at any time.

But he dared not. He dared not because he had no matches. By a stroke of the wildest ill-fortune he had destroyed a full box, the last box in his store, by omitting to close it before striking one on its side. He had struck it toward the end where the heads were, and they had flared up and burned off to cinders in pre¬ cisely two seconds. He was relying on that cartridge, that last cartridge, to light the fire. He would have to light it soon. There had not been a live ember since early yesterday morning when the snow that had ac¬ cumulated above his stone chimney, far above at the outlet, had come pouring down and doused his fire.

He could not kill the lynx and light the fire too. He must choose. And now, crouched on the floor be¬ fore the cold embers, his back to the lynx, which scratched and scratched, the man, bundled like a great ball in his parka and seal leggings and with his heavy furs about his chilled body, was dully trying to decide what to do.

It was death either way, it seemed. He could only choose between the bloody, riving death at the lynx’s claws, or the slower but perhaps no

THE THIN MATCH

less deadly alternative of being froz¬ en stiff.

Suddenly, he thought of that old coat! There might—there just might be, in one of the pockets, a stray match. He had worn it, he remem¬ bered, on the train trip and for the first day on board the ship, and had carried matches in the side pockets. First pounding his hands together to start up some little circulation, he dug, with his great fur gloves still on his hands, under his bunk against the end wall. Out came the old coat at last. He hadn’t worn it for months now. Laying it out roughly before him on the edge of the bunk, and again slapping his gloved hands to¬ gether, he hastily pulled off the right glove with his teeth. Then he thrust into the pockets, first the right one, then the left. What was this? He clawed out the crumbling remains of the old box. Matches? He shook the box close to his ear. Matches! Godl —matches!

He spilled them on the bunk in his agitation and relief, which shook him from head to foot with a violent trembling. He wept uncontrollably and started to pick them up carefully. There were three, all good, sound matches.

He slapped his hands together again, pulled off his other glove, and rubbed his hands briskly up and down on the heavy fur of his parka. Then he took his rifle, and laid it, ready loaded, beside him on the bunk.

The scratching of the lynx seemed to him louder and bolder; more im¬ minent and menacing. The great beast, it would seem, could not dis¬ lodge the heavy, flat stones with which the cache was overlaid. There was not room enough for that—too little purchase to be obtained. He looked around. The lynx had abandoned its old purpose, and was coming through into the hut. It was working on the wood now. That was what had made the change in the sound of the

scratching. Already a huge, wicked paw appeared, a paw armed with chisels! The lynx snuffled. If not pemmican, then Man!

C arefully, gingerly, Pete drew the first match along the side of the box. But the oily side caused it to slip without igniting. At the second trial the head crumbled off the stick. He threw away the useless stick and took the second. It broke off, close to the head. He fumbled after the head on the floor, his hands like lumps of lead. At last he got it between his thumb and the side of the box. It would bum him, he knew; but what was a bum? He rubbed it against the box. It flared suddenly, died at once, giving him a vicious bum in the process, and smoked out to a tiny, in¬ considerable cinder.

Pete turned pale under the dirt of his unshaven cheeks, and reached for his last match. He struck it, with in¬ finite care, seven times, drawing it along different portions of the better preserved box-side. It fizzled at last, but that was all. The head crumbled off as the first had done.

Pete sat there looking at the frag¬ ments of the broken box and the use¬ less sticks in a dumb frenzy of de¬ spair. He was done—at the end of his rope. Then, suddenly animated, he seized the useless wreck of the empty box and threw it on the hard earthen floor, and ground it with his heel. He sat and stared at it. The lynx broke off a great splinter of wood, but Pete did not notice the lynx. What was that? It looked like a good match-head, there under the edge of the flimsy match box now ground and crushed flat.

Almost perishing now with the bit¬ ter cold in his ungloved hands, which made them feel like useless lumps of lead, Pete groped for it. He got it at last in his numb fingers, and carefully gathered up a bit of the box-side, a mere splinter. He carried the find

In WEIRD TALES for April

Bloody Moon

By HARRY HARRISON KROLL A Weird Tale of the Kentucky Caves

ON SALE AT ALL NEWS STANDS MARCH FIRST

I N SANTO DOMINGO any native will tell you, at great length, tales of the glories of dead and gone Dominican heroes. They will tell you of the bloody sack of Puerto Plato; of how a defeated general fled to Porto Rico without telling his army in the north that his cause had been lost, leaving them to fight on with the loss of a thousand souls when there was really no need of fighting; of how an¬ other general captured Macoris with¬ out firing a shot, of how, compelling his fighters to strip to their naked hides, he caused each man to be smeared with oil and armed with two machetes. They went into Macoris after nightfall, slipping through the streets like ghosts. Encountering an¬ other person in the pitch darkness, the fighter knew at once whether that person were friend or foe—if he felt a body greasy like unto his own, he moved on with a grunt of recognition, but if he encountered the feel of cloth his machete struck swiftly, viciously, and in silence, except for the crunch of bones.

All these stories, and many others, will the natives tell you; but if you ask them how the Desert of the Dead acquired its name they will cross themselves hurriedly and flee from

you as if from a living plague. The more ignorant ones will make signs behind your back and scratch crosses in the dusty prints where your feet have trodden. You have asked a ques¬ tion that no one will answer, for the subject is taboo.

But, from a few words I had heard here and there among the hetter edu¬ cated Dominicans, I pieced together a tale of how the place had come to be so named—a tale of a struggle in which brother met brother, father met son, paternal uncles crossed machetes with fuzzy-chinned nephews, and of how all met their deaths together in a baptism of fire.

T he Desert of the Dead lies in the very heart of the Cordillera Cen¬ tral. It is a great hollow bowl, cliffbordered, far back in the mountains westward from Basimo. This much I know, and the scraps of stories which I had heard had filled me with curi¬ osity that would not be gainsaid. I resolved to visit this desert of grisly name. I sought far and wide for guides to lead the way. None could be found with the courage to accom¬ pany me.

So I took passage on a guagua which plied between Santo Domingo


City and Santiago, and asked to be dropped off at Madrigal. Here I shifted my light pack to a comfortable position athwart my shoulders and headed into the west, toward the spot where natives have made a ford across the Jaina River. There were many natives with me on the trail, and of some of these I asked where the trail branched off to the Desert of the Dead. Again the natives crossed themselves—and made marks in the prints my shoes had left.

“Go not into the desert of Los Muertos!” cried one man when I put the question. “As alcade of Madri¬ gal it is my duty to warn you that those who enter that aged trail never return again to the sight of mortal men! I warn you as a friend—and because it is my duty.”

I thanked him and, for some rea¬ son which even I could not fathom, I studied his face so that I should re¬ member him if ever we met again. There was no reason why I should have done this. Natives do not in¬ terest me in the slightest. But I did it. I looked back a few moments lat¬ er, intending to wave him a friendly adios. He was stooping to the tracks I had made, and was making crosses in the heel prints with his grimy An¬ gers ! I did not wave. But I watched the natives who were going in the same direction as I.

Pour hours out of Madrigal, near El Jamey, I saw an opening in the jungle which had at one time been the beginning of a trail. It was choked with brambles and tropical vines. It led straight toward the mountains which raised their serrated edges against the western horizon. I wondered if this were the trail. I watched the natives. One and all, old and young, they passed the smothered opening with averted heads, and with their right hands they made the sign of the cross athwart their bodies. Then I knew that this, indeed, was the beginning of the trail.

I drew a machete I had purchased and cut my way into the opening. I made considerable noise at Arst, and some of the natives cast frightened eyes at me. Then they Aed along the main trail in either direction. I smiled to myself with the cynic’s amusement.

But after an hour or two of Aghting the jungle growth, the way became easier and I sheathed my machete. There was no mark to indicate that anyone had passed this way in years. Yet the trail was there, and at the other end of it, what? The sun was touching the serrated crest of the Cor¬ dilleras to the westward when I asked myself that question. I was tired and almost famished. I stopped where a trickle of water crept forth from be¬ neath a jumble of boulders and made my camp for the Arst night.

T he sun was almost in the same place next evening when I came to the end of the trail, right against where a passageway through a stone wall had been Ailed in by a great ex¬ plosion, which had blown in the op¬ posing sides of the wall. There was a trickle of water here and I cooked my supper before exploring farther. Then I lifted my bedding roll to my shoulders once more and started to climb up the face of the cliff, intend¬ ing to skirt the old cave-in. Twenty minutes later I stood on the summit and gazed, stricken with wonder, di¬ rectly down upon the Desert of the Dead. It wasn’t particularly grue¬ some and I laughed anew as I recalled the actions of natives whom I had questioned about the place.

It was a giant amphitheater sur¬ rounded by sheer walls of stone, upon the sides of which not even a Domini¬ can goat might have found footing. The Aoor was desert, desolate, bare of even a blade of grass.

I looked back at the spot where I had eaten my supper. It would be a good place in which to spend the

DESERT OP THE DEAD


night. But the sun had crept behind the mountain’s crest now, and the place below me was filled with a shad¬ ow that was vaguely disquieting. I shuddered, for what reason I know not, and made my bed on the high rock where I stood. It was too late to attempt descent into the Desert of the Dead. I fell asleep at once. Jly nerves were as tranquil as those of a

I awoke with a start and looked at my watch by moonlight. It was ex¬ actly midnight. Then I looked down into the Desert of the Dead. Only now it was not a desert! Where I had seen sand before there was now the luxuriant green of tropical ver¬ dure ! Huge palm trees nestled at the base of the cliff at my feet. I started —and almost fell into the rock-bor¬ dered passageway which led from the outside world into the Desert of the Dead! There had been no explosion and no eave-in! I rubbed my eyes. I pinched myself to see if I were dream¬ ing—and the pinching hurt!

Then I heard the sound of voices from the heart of the desert floor— voices which chattered excitedly in the patois of Santo Domingo. There were words of command, shouts of men on sentry-go, sharp shouts of the Officer of the Day upon his round of the sen¬ tries. The Desert of the Dead was the rendezvous of a huge detachment of Dominican soldiers! I could see the lights of their campfires as they twinkled through the foliage like giant fireflies.

The sudden displacing of a pebble behind me. I looked quickly around. A black man was creeping stealthily up the very path I had ascended to reach my sleeping place. He paused for a long moment after that pebble had fallen. He lis¬ tened. Reading his mind I looked to¬ ward that encampment below me to see if anyone had heard. No one had. The black man continued his toilsome ascent. In much less time than I had

required for the climb, he reached the summit and straightened himself slowly. I saw on the ragged shoul¬ ders of his blue denim blouse the gaudy epaulets of a revolutionary general. He carried a round black can in his arms. He handled it as carefully as if it had been a sleeping child.

He placed the can in a hole above the wall and attached a fuse to its top. Instantly I saw his intention. He meant to blast the passageway and lock the detachment inside a liv¬ ing tomb! I tried to move and could not raise a finger. I. shouted a warn¬ ing, and no sound came from my lips. I felt the marrow in my bones congeal

The general turned and retraced his steps, as silently as he had come. I watched him go. I saw him come to pause in a spot where the woods and the trail by which I had come were lined with motionless figures. He raised his hand in a commanding ges¬ ture and a whole company of shadows formed in single file and began the entry to the Desert of the Dead. Their footfalls made not a sound. The fig¬ ures stooped slightly, as if to avoid detection. Once more I tried to shout a warning and no words came.

I counted the men as they filed through. Three hundred silent shadThe general mounted once more to the rock upon which I sat. I watched him more closely and gasped—for he cast no shadow and I could see the opposing walls of the passageway di¬ rectly through him! I might not have been there at all for all the attention he paid me. When every last shadow had gained the Desert of the Dead the general touched match to the fuse. In a shrill and frenzied shout he cried out one word in bastard Spanish.

“Charge!”

The order rang out across the am¬ phitheater and echoed back and forth between the rocky walls. The sentries

DESERT OF THE DEAD


One by one the cries were stopped as the fire swept across the Desert of the Dead. The general, who had been watching it all from the rock beside me, walked to the edge and looked down. Then he leapt straight out, praying as he fell! The fire reached up hungry fingers to clutch at him and his figure vanished in the flames.

Still lost in this avalanche of hor¬ ror I turned my gaze back to that charred figure, burned beyond human resemblance, which clung to the oppo¬ site wall. It oscillated gently in the currents of air generated by the heat of the fire—that heat I could not feel. The oscillation loosened the grip of those dead fingers and the sodden fig¬ ure fell back into the huge inferno, flinging high a shower of sparks as it struck with a thud that came plainly across to me.

I was all alone above the Desert of the Dead!

Morning came and I did not realize it until I felt the heat of the sun upon my uncovered body where I sat upon that rock. Had I dreamed it all? No I For up to my nostrils from the deso¬ lated Desert of the Dead came the un¬

mistakable odor of burned flesh 1 But the desert was just as I had seen it before lying down to my sleep the night before. The morning breezes carried that elusive odor, which I shall never forget, up and out of the am¬ phitheater, and bore it away to some unknown valley of winds, back in the heart of the Cordilleras.

T wo days later, dazed, broken, burning up with fever and weird imaginings, I once more entered the main trail near El Jamey. I was met there by the alcalde of Madrigal. He hurried toward me with gladness shin¬ ing in his eyes.

“Ah, my friend,” he said, "I thank God that yon have returned safely from that place of horrors, the Desert of the Dead!”

I looked dully, vacantly, into his kindly eyes. Something he read in mine caused him to retreat a step or two. Then he turned and fled!

For with his mention of that,name, scarcely realizing what I did, I stooped down and made the sign of the cross in the marks left by his bare feet!

The Third story in this remarkable series of “Strange Tales from Santo Domingo” by Lieutenant Arthur J. Burks will be printed in WEIRD TALES next month. It is called “Day¬ light Shadows.” Later Stories in the same series will narrate the weird exploits of the no¬ torious Dominican bandit, Jose Espinosa

Fate Played a Strange Prank Upon This Man Who Slew Himself

The Last Cigarette

By GREYE LA SPINA

Author of “The Tortoise-Shell Cat,” “The Remorse of Professor Panebianco ” etc.

M ilton wheeler’s thick¬ set body shivered as he put a match to the wick of the oil heater, noting mechanically that the reservoir was almost empty. Before he could get more oil, he would have to settle that already large bill owing the grocer.

He paced the floor to stir his torpid circulation, rubbing his stubby hands together briskly.

His gray suit was much too light for November, and his undergarments —repeatedly darned and patched by Agnes’ hands—too thin to yield their original warmth. He owed the tailor for that new black overcoat; as for the underwear, he would first have to pay for last summer’s things and for the new black hat, before ordering other garments. A black suit he had not quite dared to order. Not that the tailor had actually asked for money, but he had observed casually that he wouldn’t send in his little bill until after the funeral.

After the funeral! Milton shivered again, this time not with cold. Every¬ thing was coming in—after the fuHe felt that Agnes had dealt him almost a personal blow by dying; without her co-operation, how could he keep up his pretenses? It would be a few days only, before his hated rival would leant upon how small a foundation had been built Milton’s house of sham. That Benson, who

had in everything but the winning of Agnes triumphed over him, should learn of his failure to make a success financially, was to Milton a frightful tragedy.

Milton had had a few thousand dol¬ lars in bank, and a fair salary at the laboratory, when he married Agnes, winning her from Benson, who had large private means. (It was the first time since they two had been boys in school together that Milton had tri¬ umphed over the other man.) It had been indescribably galling to him to think that Benson would ever learn how much Agnes had lost in marrying a poorer man. Agnes had rebelled at this deception in the beginning; she did not care, she said. But then she saw how keenly Milton felt about it— how his every thought was turned in the one direction. Poor girl! Her first unkind act had been her deser¬ tion of him at this critical moment.

Milton had managed to fool every¬ body. He had kept up a lavish es¬ tablishment, spending his principal freely. He had bought Agnes every¬ thing that could make the impression of unlimited means upon the rejected Benson, whose keen eyes he fancied were always upon him. Agnes’ death, however, found him penniless; with¬ out a position; confronting a moun¬ tain of unpaid bills. Rent, unsettled for four months; groceries, the sum was almost staggering; butcher, how could they have consumed such quan¬ tities of meat?



they would continue to admire and envy him—and his secret would re¬ main undiscovered.

E verything was ready. He lighted a cigarette contentedly. When he had finished this last smoke, he would climb the ladder, adjust the rope. ... It would be the greatest triumph of his life, after all—this death. His only regret was that he could not be there to enjoy the effect of the stupendous climax.

His cigarette finished, he flung the butt away and mounted the ladder. He felt gingerly of the rope knotted about his neck, shuddering involun¬ tarily. If it were not that by dying

he was making his secret secure for all time—. After all, it was the only

Setting his teeth, he pushed against the ladder with both feet. It toppled to the floor with a crash.

As his body was whirled about by the tautening rope, a flare from the bronze tray on the desk caught Milton’s eye.

In that last poignant moment he had the mortification of observing that the cigarette butt had fallen upon and ignited the suicide note, that curled—crisped—blackened to an indecipherable ash before his agon¬ ized eyes.

INVADERS FROM THE DARK

A Remarkable Serial Novel By GREYE LA SPINA

This tale of werewolves and the powers of evil, set in a simple American village, rises in a grad¬ ual crescendo of interest and horror to a breath¬ taking denouement. The story begins in the April WEIRD TALES.

A Fascinating Story—A Powerful ‘Tale On Sale At All News Stands March First

The Tale of a Man Who Lost His Soul

The Weird Green Eyes of Sari

By MARGARET McBRIDE HOSS

S INCE man first reared himself upright on his two legs and looked at the stars, the sea and the things of the sea have worked strange enchantments upon that in¬ ward part of him he calls his soul. I have known many men whom the sea has regenerated. Like the broom of the Almighty, sweeping away rotten¬ ness and filth, the salt wind some¬ times blows clean the secret places of the soul. On the other hand, I have known many men whom the sea has cursed. Back to the land that spawned them it tosses them with queer, tor¬ menting kinks in their souls, kinks destined never to be ironed out by anything save the impartial hand of death. But only once have I known the sea, or a thing that crept out of the sea, to steal the soul from the body

In a modest coast town, tucked un¬ obtrusively away in the southeast cor¬ ner of the map, Philip Sanbome and 1 grew up together. Our green ap¬ ples, our marbles, our dreams and our lickings all lacked savor unless we shared them one with the other. First as a kid and later as a man, I admired Phil inordinately. He was easily the best man I have ever known. Not the pious sort of good, you understand: never went near a church, proclaimed his faults and hid his virtues, and in particularly lurid moments made use of a vocabulary as picturesque and colorful as that of any pirate who

ever scoured the seven seas. But he was innately clean and selfless and square; he couldn’t have been any other way even had he tried.

He was beautifully built, broad shouldered, narrow hipped, with hair of that attractive, glinting blondncss that shines like precious metal in the sun. In appearance he might have been one of the blue-eyed heroes of the old Norse sagas, a hardy sea rover worshiper of Odin and the great god Thor come down from Valhalla; but, as a matter of fact, Phil was indiffer¬ ent to the sea. Always clever with bis hands, he built a squat, friendly little house that he adored and put¬ tered over endlessly. He lined it with books and framed it with flowers; he cluttered it with quaint outlandish furniture carved in his leisure mo¬ ments; he saturated it with pipe smoke and peopled it with the dreams that come to a man when he is young and a little lonely. Most of these dreams bore the quiet gray eyes and thoughtful face of the one girl in whom Phil ever evinced more than a passing interest—Mary McKee.

My wife and I were more than or¬ dinarily fond of Mary and we were genuinely distressed when the years slipped by with nothing definite com¬ ing of their friendship. The pitiful truth was that Mary cared more than Phil. Hers was the steady, unswerv¬ ing love of a woman, whose heart once given cannot be recalled at will. I



think there were times when she tried desperately to call it back into her keeping, for the heart of Mary was a prize that was coveted by more men than one; but Phil’s it was in the be¬ ginning and Phil’s it stubbornly reHow or where Phil came under the spell of Sari Thrcnow’s shoal-green

thing terrible and at the same time infinitely pathetic about his passion for her; it worried and tore at him like a vindictive live creature deter¬ mined to leave him neither mental peace nor surcease from bodily long¬ ing. She was lovely to look at, but there was an intangible something about her beauty that I hated. I never looked at her without crushing down an itching, maniacal desire to twist her long yellow hair about her pale throat and . . .

I am not naturally subject to homi¬ cidal seizures either, I assure you! At the time, I was heartily ashamed of that desire. Later, I cursed my¬ self sick for throttling it.

Her mode of dress was so startling that it deserves mention. Always she was garbed in silvery, shimmering, exquisite stuffs, fashioned with an odd pointed effect trailing in back, and her only ornaments were strands of pearls that vied with her skin in whiteness. When she and Phil were together, the presence of others was seemingly regarded as a nuisance to be escaped as quickly and expedi¬ tiously as possible. When Phil was busy, she came often to see my wife, Nancy, and two vertical lines of wor¬ ry etched between Nancy’s eyes were the invariable sequels to her visits. Now Nancy has no kinship with the damp, lachrymose type of female who drips tears merely for the pleasure she derives thereby, and when I came home one evening and found her cry¬ ing, the incident left me unpleasantly

“Don’t mind me. Bob,” she said.

dabbing at her eyes and attempting a watery smile. “Sari Threnow just left. There is something about that woman that puzzles and frightens me. It isn’t anything she says, because she never says anything at all—just sits and watches me. Oh, you can’t imag¬ ine! My tiniest move never escapes her weird green eyes. She is absorb¬ ingly interested in the way I wash my dishes, sweep my house, comb my hair and darn your socks. She be¬ haves like a visitor from another planet, who, ignorant of the ways of women, tries to learn by heart the things that women do. Oh, I know what I’m saying sounds ridiculous! And more ridiculous still is my creepy feeling of certainty that she wants something, wants it so terribly she would move heaven itself to gain it. It isn’t love and it isn’t money or any of the things a normal woman craves—it’s something incrediblesomething she is working night and day to take away from Phil. It frightens me.”

My bland demeanor was far from being a true index to my feelings, for I recalled with a shiver of disgust the emotions that a sight of Sari Threnow never failed to evoke in me.

'‘You’re letting your imagination run away with you, dear,” I soothed. “If she’s after anything poor old Phil could give, he’d hand it over and be pathetically grateful to her for taking it.

“A material something, yes. But it isn’t a question of that.”

Nancy’s quiet conviction silenced the protest that rose to my lips.

“Do you think she loves PhilJ” I asked after an uneasy pause.

My wife made a surprizing answer.

“I think she tries, but she doesn’t know how.”

“Fiddlesticks!” I replied. “I’m going to see Phil tomorrow and tell him that her visits here must eome to an end.”

But I never did.

I T tyfon^°h!m h<i Atflrst^cJiifdn’t

mmmi

a,i , r^ , 5z»s.E

E«3S?S

SiErirr

W5S^>

Ca “Cut r °out’the riddles,” I begged.

s5»SSs“SsE S;S|??S 3

SbtSH

inn?


DEAF, DUMB, and BLIND

By

C. M. EDDY, JR.

A grisly story of the powers of evil In WEIRD TALES Next Month On Sale At All News Stands March First

Filipino Superstition, and Belated Justice

A Gaddaan Alaad

By GEORGE BALLARD BOWERS

Author of “That White Superiority”

D etection of crime by

American officers in the Phil¬ ippine Islands depends large¬ ly upon their knowledge of native cus¬ toms and beliefs and their ability to interpret correctly the pagan rites and ceremonies commonly practised in peasant society.

Alaad is a ceremony to lay a ghost. It is frequently practised by criminals along the Cagayan River of northern Luzon to propitiato the spirits of their dead victims.

Two little boys had been cruelly murdered without any apparent mo¬ tive. The murderer had not left the slightest clue to aid the police. The American captain, knowing the cus¬ toms of the locality, suspended all fruitless search except to watch for announcements of forthcoming alaads. His wait was rewarded by the capture and conviction of the guilty man.

'IXT'hkn the nervous pony espied the ’ ’ two little boys playing in the ford, he stopped stock-still to pitch his rider over his head into the water. The little fellows laughed with child¬ ish glee while the superstitious hunter held his rearing mount with one hand to recover his fallen lance with the

The childish laughter was an ill omen. The enraged hunter swung into his saddle, with long lance poised, and started in pursuit of the fright¬ ened, fleeing boys already out of the river in the open meadow. Before

his companion could divine his pur¬ pose, the infuriated man had swept up the smaller boy on his lance. With¬ out reining in his mount, he shook off the bleeding body to impale the sec¬ ond, a boy of eight, who, in the mean¬ time, seeing escape impossible, had stopped so as to be better able to par¬ ry the thrusts.

The pony galloped past, and the point of the lance missed by a foot. At a signal from his rider, he circled so that the man might not lose con¬ trol of his long weapon. Anticipating the second attack, the boy ran toward his assailant, but he was no match for his skill. As the hunter swept past, he released the shaft, and the blade found its victim’s breast. The trained animal turned and trotted back to stop beside the kill.

The rider dismounted, withdrew his lance, then returned to the fowl to wash its crimson blade.

His frightened companion waited for him to speak.

“Thou, Carlos, hast. seen. Tell at. thy peril.”

“I saw nothing, master.”

They mounted. The hunter Do¬ mingo led the way, avoiding the little brown bodies under the circling vul¬ tures. An hour later they stopped; the hunter had reached home. He dismounted, threw the rein to his com¬ panion, to greet his little daughter Maria waiting at the door. He took her in his arms gently and, with his nose pressed into her soft cheek, in115



haled again and again. Maria was a dainty brown creature of five. The rude hunter loved her as dearly as his own life. He told her of his unsuc¬ cessful hunt and of his disappoint¬ ment in not having brought her the timid fawn promised at his departure. She patted his cheeks while he re¬ sumed his caresses.

N early a year had gone by. The two little boys playing in the river had been forgotten. One day lit¬ tle Maria complained of pain. The crimson had gone from her brown cheeks. Domingo, her father, sent Carlos to fetch the village babalyan, witch-doctor, while he himself pre¬ pared the sacrifice. He had no faith in the cures of the white man.

The old babalyan came promptly, for Domingo was a rich man. He took the sacrifice—a white rooster, some rice and a quart of wine—to a banyan tree deep in the forest, where he left them for the departed spirits reputed to be living in that sacred tree. If Domingo had not been rich and powerful the sacrifice might have found its way into the babalyan’s kitchen instead.

The old witch-doctor returned from the forest to make some Christian crosses over the sick child, mumbled a Latin phrase or two, then assured Domingo that his daughter was on the road to recovery.

But in spite of the sacrifice and the crosses, Maria did not improve. The babalyan returned again and again, but the tiny body only grew more frail. Finally Domingo and the ba¬ balyan had a long secret conference, after which it was announced that Domingo, the wealthiest man of the Magat valley, would give an alaad.

The spirits of the two little boys he had so ruthlessly slain were torment¬ ing his daughter. An alaad would put them to rest.

Domingo had a busy week. He went from house to house to invite his

neighbors to come to his home for an entire day. He assured each that there would be an abundance of food, drink and amusement.

At daybreak of the eventful day the guests began to assemble. As Do¬ mingo was a man of wealth, it was known that he would serve a bounte¬ ous feast. Two fat hogs had been killed to be roasted whole over a bed of live coals. Great pots of rice were prepared to provide canin to eat with the roasted flesh. Jars of fermented coconut-tuba had been brought from a distant grove and two demijohns of distilled vino invited those wishing something stronger.

By 10 o’clock the laughing, blackej-ed senoritas, powdered and bejeweled, had arrived to range themselves around the wall of the room, sitting on clean, new mats provided for the occasion. Each smoked her favorite cigarette or a tustus rolled of nipa leaf with a heart of fragrant tobacco. Some of the older men sat on their haunches in the center of the room drinking tuba or chewing betelnut and pepper leaf, to expectorate the blood-red juices into the cracks of the bamboo floor.

T he three musicians struck their guitars several times as a warn¬ ing. Time for the dance to begin. The men cleared the center of the room while the servant, Carlos, wiped the bamboo floor with an old burlap rice-sack. The tinkling music moved the young men, smoking languidly outside, to draw nearer so as better to ogle the maidens who smiled en¬ couragingly from within.

One young man, bolder than his companions, laid his half-finished cigar on a convenient post, to enter. He went straight to Domingo’s sis¬ ter, bowed and offered his arm. After casting her tustus through the open window, she slowly arose to her feet, grasped the tail of her long skirt in

5 had eaten his fill

" =",S SSwiffS

=, f tut £SeM“S 2£

na wmm

hc “ hispart °7 h ;7 e m 7, ra



confession. No names need be men¬ tioned, and the story might be told in allegory.

Domingo took his place at the end of the room that he might scan the faces of his hearers. His face was flashed with excitement. He was thinking of his little Maria, whose cheeks would again show crimson. He did not fear his guests. No Gaddaan has ever betrayed the secret of the

He coughed, cleared his throat, then began:

“One day last harvest time, while returning from an unsuccessful hunt on the great plain toward the setting sun, I started to cross the creek San¬ tos, near where it joins the mighty Magat. I had just entered the water when my horse shied at two fawns playing there. He threw me over his head into the water. The pain of the fall was so great that I could not con¬ trol my anger. I remounted my horse. I gave chase to the fawns that caused my mishap. I caught the first on my lance. I shook him off. He was dead. The other fawn turned upon me. I let go my lance and it pierced him in the breast. It is the anitos of the lit¬ tle fawns that I would send to rest by my alaad today; they make sick my little Maria.”

Domingo had obeyed the law of his ancestors. His secret was with his

There was a deathlike silence. Do¬ mingo had dropped upon his knees, with head bowed. His lips moved in a silent prayer that had been taught him by a zealous Christian monk

when he was yet a child. His guests looked knowingly at each other, then slipped away one by one.

W hen darkness had fallen a child¬ ish voice called faintly, “Tatay, tat ay. Ari co.”

Domingo obeyed her summons. Within the little room where the sick child lay, he found her mother praying before a crucifix. He dropped to his knees beside her to wait and watch. At the first streak of dawn the little voice on the mat whispered, “Tatay, Nanay’’, but before the par¬ ents could answer her call, she was dead. Her anito had gone to seek the two little fawns.

The mother threw herself over the clay that had been her child and sobbed silently. Domingo stood up to listen. He had heard unfamiliar sounds, footfalls made by shoe-clad feet, metal striking against metal like cartridges dropping into a magazine, then two harsh noises as if riflebolts had been shot into place carelessly. Heavy footfalls struck the paths.

Someone near the kitchen door tried to smother a cough. After a short silence, another boldly ascended the front steps. Then a loud knock sounded on the door and a gruff voice called, “Too, po, tao, po’’. The speaker demanded admittance.

Domingo tiptoed to the window, then whispered hoarsely, “Justicia, jtisticia”. He lowered the window gently as if not to waken his little Maria, and opened the door to face a burly Filipino sergeant and two rifles pointing from the ground.

Author of “ Ado

W ITH Phantom Dick backirg across the tiled floor of toe National Bank, smoke curling lazily from the end of his pistol bar¬ rel, the echoes still ringing in the dome of the spacious banking estab¬ lishment while gongs on the police pa¬ trol clanged in the canyons of the financial district, would you dare sug¬ gest to the bank cashier, sprawled on the floor in a pool of his life’s blood, that Phantom Dick was made of the stuff of dreams?

Certainly not. But if you have studied the human being all of your life you will have learned much and there will be one thing to puzzle you: there goes the man down the street, a wonderful machine of flesh, blood and bone, undoubtedly the greatest thing of creation. If he is a friend of yours he will stop, smile, extend his hand and speak to you. That is true but—ah, here’s the rub!—he gets sick

Now, you look upon the man. Even the masters of medicine and surgery will tell you that you look upon the same man. He is all there. Blood, bone and flesh. But he will not get up, he will not speak to you, he will not shake your hand, he will not smile, he will not look at you. Why?

rnture of Souls”

The medical experts will tell you that the man is dead. Everyone who looks upon the dead man will say “he is gone.” What do they mean by that ? Is he not in plain view ? Have the medical men not said that it is the same man, nothing missing? But his small son, three years old, who has never heard of the thing called a man’s soul, will say “Daddy’s gone.” What does he mean? Who told him?

Now, listen to the story of Richard Stafford, the dreamer, and Phantom Dick, the thief. You be the judge.

R ichard Stafford was a dreamer.

He taught himself to dream; when he was a boy the dreams came naturally from eating too much be¬ fore he was chased off to bed, and breaking the laws of nature generally. The one peculiar thing about Rich¬ ard’s dreams was that they were, as a rule, pleasant dreams. He always awoke before the lion or tiger snatched him and he came to the point where he found extreme delight in the adventuresome land of Nod. He never dreamed of muddy streams of water, snakes, lizards and the like; his dreams were of roses, beautiful val¬ leys, babbling brooks, birds and (when he grew older) pretty women.


"WEIRD TALES

Richard was always the hero in his dreams.

Richard dreamed that he was visit¬ ing San Francisco. Then he awoke. He might just as well have been there in person because the resultant gratification was just as complete. He decided to try going where he desired, by prearrangement, in his dreams. The first trials were rather confusing; he could not be sure that it was a success. Then he went to bed with his mind made up to visit Pittsburgh.

Sure enough, he found himself walking up Smithficld Street; he saw the huge, blinking, electric sign over Keith’s Vaudeville House; he heard the rumble of the trains coming in overhead on the Wabash Railroad; he walked out on the Sixth Street bridge, hung over the railing and watched the steamers plowing down the river with their tow of coal barges. And then he awoke.

Of course Richard did not for a moment believe that he had visited Pittsburgh in person, but he did know that he had learned to dream at will. He could go on any kind of an ad¬ venture he desired and always find himself safely at home, in bed, the next morning. So Richard found great delight in dreaming.

Richard lived on a farm near a small town called Kanada which was just forty miles from a great, roaring, bustling city of a million souls. He seldom visited the city because there was too much to be done on the farm. When he had any spare time he would call his dog. Jack, shoulder his shot¬ gun and go hunting, in the winter for rabbit and in the summer for ground¬ hog. These were his great pleasures: his dog, his gun and his dreams.

I N the big city, forty miles away, without the knowledge of Richard, lived Enid Quigley. Enid was simply one of the city’s working girls. There are many Enids, and this one was em¬ ployed at the Crown Cork and Seal

Works as a typist. She had come to the big city from a small town along

One evening, as Enid came home from her work, she was surprized to see a good-looking young man seated on the front steps of her boarding

The young man leapt to his feet, removed his hat, bowed, and mumbled some excuse for being in the way of her passage.

"It’s all right, no harm done,’’ said Enid, and she passed inside, wonder¬ ing if he could possibly be a new boarder.

“Mrs. Thorbold,” said Enid, ad¬ dressing the boarding house lady as that personage leaned over to fill a handleless, cracked cup with coffee, "who is the new boarder?”

"Why, dearie, there is no new boarder. What do you mean?”

‘ ‘ I passed a young man, on my way in, who seemed to be making himself at home on the front steps—”

‘' Oh, him ? Why, he just happened along. He comes often. Generally he comes with his dog, seats himself on the steps, smokes his pipe and goes on about his business. Whatever his business might be. I never asked him. But if he has bothered you—”

“No, no, not that! I just saw him there and wondered who he might be. Good-looking, isn’t he?”

A fteb supper, when the electric lights on the comer had blazed forth and all the little children had come out to dance while the organ grinder turned his crank and jerked on the monkey’s chain, Enid, prettily dressed, came to the front steps.

She found the young man still seated there. His dog—big, black and white spotted—was lying “at his mas¬ ter’s feet, tongue out and panting, for it was summer and the evening was warm. The young man was twirling his cap on his finger as he smiled at

THE DREAMER


the antics of the organ grinder’s monkey.

“Good evening,” he greeted the girl as if he had known her and had expected her arrival.

He stood there nntil Enid had seated herself on the steps; then he. too, reseated himself.

“Nice evening,” he said again, looking at the girl as if he wondered why she did not reply.

“It is,” she replied shortly.

Enid wondered who in the world this forward young man could be.

Now, it is impossible for a young lady and a young man to sit side by side on the front steps of a boarding house with the music of a hurdygurdy in their ears and questions in their minds without becoming a bit friendly. Rules of society do not fit in with these occasions.

“You board here!” asked the young man.

“I do, and you do not.”

“Oh, no, I live in a beautiful apart¬ ment on Riverside Avenue. He and my dog—and my friends.”

“Oh, I see.” She did not see, though. “I work at the Crown Cork and Seal Works.”

“I know that. Your name is Enid Quigley and you are pretty. I am a

There is no doubt but that Enid Quigley should have been shocked at this candid triplicate statement. But the fact is, she did not believe the last statement and the first two pleased her vanity.

“A thief?”

“Yes, I am Phantom Dick, and this is my dog.”

At this Enid felt her heart flutter¬ ing under her shirtwaist and tried to make up her mind whether to believe this young man, get up and run into the boarding house, or disbelieve him and sit still.

For surely, Enid Quigley, like every other person in the big city forty miles from Kanada, either knew

of or had heard tell of Phantom Dick, the master mind of the most daring band of criminals the big city had ever known. Loot valued at millions had been stolen by his gang and many murders were credited to them; but the police and newspaper men insisted that Dick never killed a man: he sat at a big, highly polished, smooth table, down in the underworld, planned the jobs and instructed his men how to pull them. None of the policemen had ever seen Phantom Dick, but they had often seen his dog. That was the thing that marked a bank burglary, hold-up or murder as being one of Phantom Dick’s jobs. The police al¬ ways managed to arrive in time to see the dog leaving the scene.

The girl laughed. The young man smiled. A big, flat-footed policeman came along the sidewalk, swinging his stick at the end of its strap. He no¬ ticed the dog, stopped and looked at him for a few seconds, stood there scratching his chin, and eventually smiled upon the pair seated on the

“Looks like Phantom Dick’s dog,” laughed the policeman.

“You are right, officer, it is Phan¬ tom Dick’s dog and I am Phantom Dick,” and the young man smiled good-naturedly.

The big policeman threw' his head back and laughed heartily at the joke. Perhaps he wished that it might be Phantom Dick and his dog, for there was a reward of $25,000 for Phan¬ tom Dick, dead or alive.

“No one believes me,” complained the young man to the girl after the policeman had passed on.

“Really, now, I can see no reason why they should not believe you,” she said sarcastically.

The young man pulled at his cap thoughtfully, and finally said, “We need a woman, a daring woman, a pretty woman, to assist us in our work. Would you like to join ns?”

122 WEIRD

“Oh, surely,” still sarcastically. Enid enjoyed the joke. “I should dearly love to be the queen of a band of cut-throats. Where is your den ? ” “Den?” The young man eyed her narrowly. “Before you can visit our stronghold you must assist in a hold¬ up. This evening we are going to rob a bank. The National Bank. It is open until 9 o’clock, and I believe the results will be well worth our trouble. You’re going along?”

“Of course I am; come on!” And the girl leapt to her feet as if she would offer the young man a dare.

The young man put his cap on, snapped his fingers to his dog, and the three of them—Phantom Dick, the girl and the dog—threaded their way among the children who danced to the music of the hurdy-gurdy.

E nid expected that she would be led to a moving picture theater, or probably to a soda water fountain. Her companion called a taxicab. The ride was not a long one, and they were soon on the pavement before the Na¬ tional Bank. The big doors were open and the streets were filled with hur¬ rying pedestrians. For a moment the girl was frightened, but before she could object she was being introduced to a number of well-dressed men.

“Boys, this is Enid Quigley, who wishes to assist us in robbing the Na¬ tional Bank. Mind you do no shoot¬ ing. It might frighten her.”

The men laughed. They looked to be well-to-do business men. None was below the age of thirty.

“The only way he can rob the bank is by presenting his bank book to the cashier,” laughed the girl.

Some of the men raised their eye¬ brows. All of them acknowledged the introduction. Then the young man walked away, followed by the girl and the dog, and as they entered the bank doors, Joe Sandwood, patrolman, standing half way up the block, fished out his lookout sheet and stood rubTALES

ing his chin in thought. He walked to the box and was soon in communi¬ cation with his captain.

“I know, Sam, it might be foolish. Possibly just a strange dog. But I’m going up there to investigate and if it should turn out to be Phantom Dick and his gang—well, I’ll be glad to know that some of the boys are behind me when the gats start barking, ’ ’ said Patrolman Sandwood.

Enid thought the bank watchman looked sick as she passed him, just in¬ side the big doors, for his face was pale and his lips were trembling. He was not looking at her, but rather at something behind her. She had no time to investigate, for the young man was walking rapidly toward the cashier’s window and she hurried to keep up.

If Enid had any doubt, now, about this being the real Phantom Dick, the doubts were quickly dispelled. Dick crowded his way through the line of people at the cashier’s window, thrusting them aside as he came for¬ ward. He whipped an ugly pistol from beneath his coat, thrust it through the window and remarked, in a rather calm voice, considering the circumstances:

“Stick ’em up!”

The little, bald-headed cashier obeyed without question. To say that Enid was shocked hardly explains the situation. She could not collect her wits. She turned her head and saw the bank watchman crouching against a marble pillar. A well-dressed gen¬ tleman stood before him with a pistol pointed at the metal badge on his vest. Two more well-dressed gentlemen were herding the customers against the wall.

She saw another well-dressed gen¬ tleman dumping packages of money into the yawning mouth of a leather satchel. She felt something hard and cold pressed against the palm of her hand and closed her fingers on the object; in the excitement that folWEIRD TALES

your heart could desire. The gang do not skimp on expenditures for fur¬ nishing their meeting place; and as for money, here’s your share. ’ ’

Dick handed the package, which his brother thieves had supposed he in¬ tended to keep, to the girl.

Enid did not extend her hand for the money. Instead she covered her face with her hands, and Dick threw the package into her lap.

"Even the gang know me as Phan¬ tom Dick. I am not always here to plan their depredations. When I leave it will be up to you to fill my shoes. That is why I brought you here. You will learn in time.”

Dick suddenly felt something stir his heart. He looked at the weeping girl for a moment, then he stooped, gathered her in his arms, and in spite of her objections he pressed his lips against hers. . . .

R ichard Stafford awoke. He was all tangled up in the bed sheets. The dream had been so realistic that he expected to find Enid Quigley in his arms. He fumbled about his waist for the pistols he be¬ lieved he would find there. The alarm clock was clanging, although it was still dark. He had set the clock that he might be awake when his neighbor, one Henry Wilkins, called to go hunt¬ ing groundhogs that were playing havoc with the com.

“Gosh!” he exclaimed, running his fingers through his hair- “what an adventure that was!”

Then, after thinking over the dream for a few minutes, he laughed heart¬ ily.

Henry Wilkins came stamping up on the back porch, hammered loudly on the kitchen door and was scolded roundly by Richard’s mother for awakening the entire household.

Richard came down, opened the door, greeted his friend and went out into the yard to call his dog.

“Jack!” he called. “Here, Jack!”

Richard could not locate the dog, and he returned to the house to fill his pockets with shells. He walked to the gate with Henry Wilkins, where he again called the dog. After waiting for perhaps ten minutes the two men decided that the dog had strayed away, and the hunting trip was given up.

Later, shortly after noon, Richard started for Kanada and the post office to get the mail. As he passed through the gate leading to the roadway he saw his dog coming. The dog’s tongue was lolling out and his body was wet with sweat.

“Well, where have you been?” Richard stood looking at the dog with a puzzled frown on his face. “I won¬

der if you’ve been to the city, toot”

Then Richard passed on down the road laughing at what he considered a foolish thought.

“The dog had followed some hun¬ ters who had passed before the alarm clock went off,” thought Richard.

At the post office Richard found several letters for other members of the family, and the morning paper. He placed the letters in his coat pocket and started back up the road for home, tearing the wrapper off the newspaper as he walked along.

He unfolded the paper, and the big letters (railroad type the printers call them) seemed to leap at him: “PHANTOM DICK PULLS AN¬ OTHER BANK JOB.”

The hand holding the paper trem¬ bled. Richard looked about, half ex¬ pecting to see the constable of Kanada approaching with a pair of clanking handcuffs. But again he laughed, al¬ though this time the laugh was half¬ hearted, for Richard Stafford, the dreamer, was not quite so sure of himArriving at home he went immedi¬ ately to his room, seated himself near a window, spread the paper out on a small stand and read practically the

THE DREAMER


same thing he had dreamed, except there was no mention of Enid Quig¬ ley or the bandit’s headquarters in Riverside Avenue.

Considering the matter calmly, Richard came to the conclusion that his dream had been merely a coinci¬ dence. There were no night trains from the big city to Kanada, and Richard had no automobile. It would have been impossible to go and come without attracting attention at home. No, he had likely read something in reference to Phantom Dick and this led him to dream; coincidentally the dream was almost the same thing that actually happened.

For the balance of that day it wor¬ ried him a bit, but as the days spread to weeks and the weeks to months he forgot the whole affair and went about his work and pleasures in the same fashion as he always had.

T hen, one day, he called his dog and traveled in to Kanada. He stopped at the post office as usual, and on his way out he almost ran into a girl who was about to enter.

“I beg your—”

Richard’s mouth fell open. He was so startled that he could not form the other word. The girl was an exact image of the Enid Quigley of his dreams.

The girl, herself, seemed none the less disturbed. She placed her hand to her throat and stood staring at the young man. Finally her eyes caught sight of the dog at Richard’s heels. “Phantom Dick!”

“I am afraid we have both made a mistake,’’ said Bichard, regaining control of himself.

“Well, you are an exact counter¬ part of the mysterious bank robber whose exploits the newspapers have been recounting, and you can hardly blame me for being startled,” ex¬ plained the girl.

“And you are the lady of my dreams. I once dreamed that I had

a wonderful adventure with a girl who was a dead ringer for you, ex¬ cept, perhaps, that she did not dress as well as you.”

“I wonder,” started the girl, eye¬ ing Richard intently, “I wonder if I am mistaken, after all?”

“If you will explain yourself—”

The girl did explain this: she was the new cashier at the bank, she was boarding with Mrs. Henry Wilkins, and she hoped she would see more of Richard.

She did see more of him; for the next three months they were together often and Richard Stafford had pro¬ posed to the girl; furthermore she had accepted him, and as far as Richard knew, her name was Grace Maxwell, until the winter had gone and spring was upon them. Then one day Rich¬ ard found the girl on the porch of Henry Wilkins’ house with a yellow sheet of paper in her hand.

As Richard came up on the porch the girl placed her hands behind her.

‘ * What is it ? A secret ? ’ ’ asked the young man.

The girl’s lips were drawn tight, her eyelids were half closed, and she came so close to Richard that he felt her warm breath fanning his cheek.

“I’m going to show you this tele¬ gram,” said the girl in a decidedly

And she did. The message was from the big city and it said briefly, “Well, have you got things lined up yet?” The signature was “Chuck.”

“And now I shall tell you some¬ thing; I am Enid Quigley.”

Richard started, although he had half suspected it.

“If you are not Phantom Dick, I am sadly mistaken,” and she told just what Richard Stafford had dreamed. “I am here to get a line on the bank so that the boys can come down and clean its vaults. They arc growing impatient at the delay. 1 am going back to the city to make my report. You say you love me. 1

mmm

sT~i=r£rw

is^ too much to ask of a respectable

mmM

STASAS

issi?

away half

SS55SS3

3S*w

ssur^s&Ks.*r.“ 1

Utils!

~£=&1™

THE DREAMER


tom Dick’s helpers had learned this and intended to steal the money.

A fter all had gone, leaving Enid alone with Phantom Dick, the girl sat for a long time watching the leader drumming on the top of the table with his fingertips.

“Dick, were you in Kanada?” “Me?” and the bandit leader laughed. “Me, in Kanada? "What would I be doing in that hick town?”

“That’s just it. I would like to know that myself. I have been there for a number of months lining up a job for the boys, and while there I met a man who is a dead ringer for you. Now that I look you over again I can see quite a few differences in your features.

“Dick”—the girl twisted a cigar¬ ette to pieces—“Dick, you brought me into this, why?”

“Well, if you must know, because I love you. I am going to marry you and settle down some day.”

“But, Dick, this man who is your counterpart, I love him. Do you love me enough to allow me to go to him?”

“Even that, yes.” Phantom Dick leaned towards the girl and whispered the rest. ‘ ‘ Listen, I am tired of this life. I’m going to drop out. I had not intended to do that so soon, but what you have just told me hurts—it hurts worse than you imagine—” “I’m sorry, Dick, but—”

“Shut up!” spluttered Dick an¬ grily. * ‘ Neither you nor I can be safe as long as any member of this gang is at large. I have a plan. Now don’t laugh—I’m going to furnish enough evidence to the police to hang the entire gang, or at least to send them across for a good long time. I’m go¬ ing to bring the police down on this place this very night!”

“But you—and I—”

“Let me show you how Phantom Dick disappears. You shall disap¬ pear with me when the police call.

Then you go your way and I’ll go

The bandit leader went to the rear of the room and pressed a button that was hidden by folds of draperies. A narrow door slid up.

“That door was arranged so that the gang might escape when the po¬ lice came. It leads to the roof of the building next door. The skylight is open in preparation always. Tonight I shall arrange for a visit of the flatfoots. You and I shall pass through the door and close it, cutting the gang off.”

“But—”

“I know it is not square. I know I’m double-crossing the gang. But I love you, perhaps better than that farmer in the hick town you men¬ tioned, and it was I who brought you into this. It is Phantom Dick who will lead you out at any cost.”

Phantom Dick disclosed a telephone cleverly concealed beneath the big ta¬ ble. He called for a number and was soon in communication with the cap¬ tain of the nearest district police sta¬ tion. He did as he had promised. The information he gave could be verified by the police.

“This is Phantom Dick, himself. I’m sick of the whole rotten business, and I’ll promise you that you shall not capture me—I hear ’em coming— you’ll have to hurry!” And Phan¬ tom Dick flipped the receiver up.

Dick had timed it well, the gang came in with the loot of the pay-roll robbery. As usual. Chuck, the killer, had been up to his tricks.

“What was that!” whispered Chuck as he leaned across tlie table to glare into the eyes of a companion. The other men leapt to their feet, knocking their chairs over. Phantom Dick was pressing the button. The dog darted into the opening as soon as the door was high enough to admit his body. Enid went next and was closely followed by Phantom Dick.

Two Youths Listened in on Interplanetary Radio , and Strange Was the Disaster That Befell Them

RADIO V-RAYS

By JAN DIRK

“Oh, that one? Ouch!”

D ICK JARVIS and Stan Ross, two young engineering stu¬ dents, lay sprawled in more or less comfortable positions in Dick’s room at college. Stan was tall, tanned, and curly-headed. Dick wore the horn-rimmed glasses, mussed hair and preoccupied look of the habitual stu¬ dent. Yet these two, normally of the two extreme types which avoid each other all through college, had been drawn together in the bonds of true friendship by one thing—radio.

On a long shelf which ran along one side of the room, beneath a win¬ dow through which projected a leadin insulator, lay a beautiful super¬ heterodyne receiver. Dick’s father had been liberal with both his verbal and monetary encouragement, and Dick and his friend Stan Ross had built the gleaming mahogany levia¬ than of the radio-receiving world as a gift for him in token of their appre¬ ciation. Stan was talking, in his easy, carefree voice:

“Well, old kid, there’s a DX halfhour starting in three minutes. Un¬ wrap yourself from that soft chair and turn the expense into those little 199’s.”

Dick grinned his acquiescence as he rose and went to the set. “Which aerial shall we use?” he inquired.

‘ ‘ Oh, the outdoor one, I guess. Try it first, anyway, and then we can change to one of the loops if it’s too loud. I’ve never seen that funny one on the end of the bench, before—I’d like to try it.”

Dick was trying to free himself from the grip of a refractory pair of head-phones that had taken a vicious hold upon one ear and a lock of hair.

“That cone-shaped loop is a highly directional affair I built so as to get away from this heavy traffic on San Francisco bay.”

He snapped over a filament-con¬ trolling toggle switch set into the long bench, and the beautiful set became instantly alive, transformed from a mechanically perfect but inanimate instrument of wood and wire to a liv¬ ing, glowing thing—a Twentieth Cen¬ tury horn of plenty, taking in at one end invisible and inaudible frequen¬ cies of electricity and releasing them as man-controlled music and speech.

S tan boss plugged in his pair of phones and watched his friend, who was crouched before the super¬ heterodyne, seeking by his trained manipulation of the dials to follow up the faint whistles which the set was pouring into his ears. Three sta¬ tions four hundred miles to the south in Los Angeles roared in, one after the other, with an intensity sufficient to rattle the sensitive diaphragms of the head-sets. Dick slid his pair for¬ ward from his ears, but Stan, a vet¬ eran of the days when he and his fel¬ low amateurs had sat long hours into the night with each others’ one kilo¬ watt spark stations tearing into their heads from three-step audio ampli¬ fiers, only smiled.

szggim b

=SSiS 5 =

lllSsss

s^a*sHE®E

gsfif!#

; 5 “z.^" s “ h “ to " SBtSWiTrt^W

W4” he »M. '•! <•> TOpiy the

SSSSS^

f?&£Xia&r<£i

SaSSSttSS

%£stHz a JSi


RADIO V-RAYS



worthy lying on the floor with his nose deep in an immense volume.

“Oh, Lord! False alarm,” he groaned. “I thought you had elec¬ trocuted yourself, or something. What’s the matter?—and what the dickens are you reading?”

Dick rose and laid the volume care¬ fully on the table.

“A treatise on X-rays,” he said; “and as for your other questions, nothing is the matter and I haven’t electrocuted myself. I just wanted you to come over and see what you have been responsible for. Look! ’ ’

He stepped to the neat work bench and withdrew the black covering cloth from a bulky cabinet.

“If I’m the father of that,” snorted Stan, “I ought to be ashamed of myself. Why, it’s out of date, obso¬ lete—no one builds cabinets three feet high any more. What in heck is it, anyway?”

“It,” said Dick, “is, as I was say¬ ing before I was so rudely inter¬ rupted”—he coughed, with a digni¬ fied air—“something for which you, only you, and no one but you, are responsible.”

“How come? I’ll bite.”

“It’s a long story, Stan. Tou probably remember the trick story that you told me a few weeks ago, at the end of which you left abruptly, so that I might not, with the powers of pure logic, destroy what you seemed to believe a miracle?”

“I remember, all right, only I didn’t say it was a miracle, and the story was not a trick story—I told you it was gospel truth, and I wasn’t kidding.”

“Uh-huh,” agreed Dick. “Well, be that as it may, your dramatic exit left me with an unsolved puzzle in my head, as you no doubt intended that it should, and knowing me as you do, old egg-beater, you certainly must know what the result of such a condition upon me would naturally

be.

“My gawsh!” Stan exclaimed; “you don’t mean to say you’ve doped out about those musical notes, do you? If you have, I’ll surely hand it to—” “In that case, I’m sorry to confess that I haven’t. But look in the cabi¬ net.”

S tan looked. He was too used to Dick’s queer contrivances to evince surprize; rather he took a care¬ ful inventory of what he saw, so that when he turned again to his friend he had a pretty good idea of the con¬ tents of the cabinet. He looked up and began enumerating from mem¬ ory : ‘ ‘ Down in a lower compartment there seems to be an orthodox receiv¬ ing set with eight oversize tubes. All the wiring is oversize, too, and so are the transformers. Up above the set there are a lot of little control ap¬ pliances, evidently of your own in¬ vention, and the biggest X-ray tube I’ve ever seen, with some sort of a focusing device pointed down into the lower compartment. That’s all. What do you think of little Watson’s pow¬ ers of observation, Sherlock?”

“You will insist upon attempting to be humorous, won’t you?” rebuked Dick, smiling nevertheless. ‘ ‘ Serious¬ ly, though, Stan, this is the biggest thing I’ve ever done, and it may mean more to the world than any other radio experimentation has meant so far. Would you like an idea of what it all means before we start work?”

“I would,” from the now sober Stan Ross.

“Well, when you left that night I began turning things over and over in my mind. You quite evidently did not think those eight notes were the result of any human agency, and the idea, though preposterous, fascinated me. Where could such a phenomenon originate, I asked myself, if it had not been the prank of some schoolboy? I thought of the millions of other heavenly bodies in the plane of the Galaxy, many of them thousands of

RADIO V-RAYS


times the size of our Earth, and some undoubtedly inhabited. I thought of Mars, though I knew that there was no more reason to believe it inhabited than any other planet, except that it had been seized upon by the popular fancy because of its proximity to the orbit of the Earth and because of its so-called canals. It was while I was thinking of Mars, however, that my train of thought shot off at a new tangent.”

Dick Jarvis paused, utterly forget¬ ful of his friend’s presence. His eyes shone queerly. As Ross prompted him he began again:

"■Why hadn’t we been able to com¬ municate with any of the other plan¬ ets ? Were they so far ahead of us in their development that they had for¬ gotten how to make our foolishly ele¬ mentary kinds of receiving sets? Was it a mere question of wave lengths? Of distance? Or had our system of radio reception perhaps developed along entirely different lines than theirs? Had they used some princi¬ ple entirely foreign to the electron theory in their radio work—say some unknown projector ray or light repul¬ sion of the sort which makes the tail of a comet point always away from the sun? It seemed possible, even probable. Then I asked myself what medium of language an exterior planet would use in an attempt at communication, and two things im¬ mediately suggested themselves: geometry and music! That latter made me think of you again, so be¬ cause it was the last thing in my train of thought—you were the last thing, I mean—I decided to call you re¬ sponsible for the whole works—the receiving set on the bench, which is what you want to hear about, of course. I ought to be ashamed of my¬ self for boring you.”

Stan protested.

“Dick,” he said, rising and grasp¬ ing his friend by the hand, “I don’t know whether you know it or not, but

you’re a genius. I’m proud to know

Dick Jarvis blushed.

“Thanks, Stan,” he said, quietly, and rushed into a hurried diseussion of the invention that rested before him, in an attempt to cover his em¬ barrassment. A rare thing, indeed, when in college an athlete deigns to give such praise to one of those who are considered miserable “grinds”, though it is indeed true that the grinds usually end up by doing more for the world. All the more credit, then, to that great connecting link of modem America, the radio, which makes all men kin.

“You see, Stanley,” Dick contin¬ ued, “that idea of Martian ray pro¬ pulsion sort of got me, and I kept asking myself if we didn’t have some¬ thing similar to it here on Earth. There seemed to be something in the back of my head which said we did— a sort of mind-picture of just what I was seeking, yet although I was on the verge of it several times I couldn’t seem to quite visualize the thing. Finally I woke up one night with the answer, and the name of the thing on my lips—it was a common X-ray tube. I got up out of bed and started work, and for a month, steadily, I’ve worked every available minute that I could spare from my studies.”

“But—” Stan broke in, impulsive¬ ly, “why didn’t you let me help you? I would have been only too glad—”

“I know you would have been, Stan. You’re good about those things. But you will have done more than your share if this thing works, tonight, by just having been here. I may need you for a witness, some day. Now, where was I ? Oh, yes—the ray.

“Of course an X-ray tube operates in accordance with the electron the¬ ory, but it shoots the electrons off—it doesn’t throw them out as an electro¬ magnetic field of force, which is prob¬ ably the fashion in which our earthly radio waves are propagated. In other



words, although I was still using the electrons in my work, I had an en¬ tirely new type of receiving set, and one which, although it might not act¬ ually hear messages from another planet, would perhaps bo the stepping stone on which some future inventor might build success. So I started.

“In the cabinet on the bench there arc, as you noticed, two divisions. One contains an oversize receiving set, with some appliances of my own at¬ tached to it, and the other the ray projecting and focusing device. The whole thing is wired with copper tub¬ ing, for the simple reason that in my earlier experiments the current de¬ veloped was sufficient to fuse ordinary wire. The tubes arc about the size of fifty watt transmitting tubes, and vary in construction, the one directly beneath the projector, which corre¬ sponds to the detector, having five electrodes made of radium-coated quartz. I am not sure that I could explain all of the action, but the radium seems to give off some new emanation that I have never seen be¬ fore, under the stimulus of the rays from the projector. Do you follow

“I’m trailing,” said Stan. “Now tell me about the projector.”

“The projector? It’s just an unusually large tube similar to an X-ray tube, which I have constructed to withstand extremely high voltages. It produces a tremendous flow of force, which I have named the V-Ray, and which by means of the leaden shield I can direct upon any portion of the net below. Now I believe that with the ray forcing a stream of elec¬ trons, or perhaps it would be more correct to say energy, into the tubes, the set will be sensitive to radio waves of a type unknown here on Earth. What the results will be, I do not know. I have never tried the set in its completed form before tonight— I’m just playing a hunch. Ready to got”

S tan boss signified his assent, and the two approached the monster on the long work bench. Stan felt a sinking sensation in the pit of his stomach. Dick attached to the input terminal of the set a long outdoor antenna, which, including the induct¬ ances which it contained every fifty feet, contained more than five miles of wire. There were no filaments in the tubes, hence the only batteries needed were some high-voltage blocks, some five hundred volts, altogether. At the extreme right of the panel were two output terminals, across which Dick had temporarily hooked a milliammeter, not knowing whether the output of the set would be audi¬ tory, visual, or what. He turned the 110 volts of the lighting system into the step-up transformer connected to the projector tube; the lights blinked, dimmed, and the huge V-Ray tube came to life, glowing greenly. The hum from the transformer seemed to drone a warning, in its ominous sixtycycle growl—occasionally its safety gap broke down and a viciously snap¬ ping tongue of violet flame crashed between the terminals and added its weird glare to the green glow that filled the room.

Dick, looking monstrous in heavy leaden surplice, goggles and gloves, grasped the projector controls and swept the tubes below with the ray. Peering over his shoulder Stan watched the vacuum tubes begin to glow as the V-rays bombarded, with billions of electrons, their radiumcoated elements. First a point at the base of each tube became incandes¬ cent, grew, and finally resolved itself into a ruddy ball of fire and rolled to the top of the plates, where it explod¬ ed and spread over the quartz sur¬ faces as an opal luminescence, turning them into swirling blazes of color— lavender, gold, red. Stan drew back, dizzied and half-hypnotized by the swirling spectra. The tubes seemed

RADIO

WIN

OWER

r the human

P ROFESSOR KURT 1 son who has b<

discovered a new element, called 2c which gives him power O'— 1

will. His nephew, Dr. Philip unvier, me psychanalyst, has inherited the elder Maquarri’s papers and the notebooks con¬ taining his scientific secrets.

The hunchback has given his step¬ daughter, Joan Suffem, a ring, which, unknown to her, contains sodium. He has demonstrated his hypnotic control over Joan by sending out electronic force through his wishing machine, and she is thereby subject to his will so long as she wears the sodium ring. He sends her to Dr. Olivier to kill him by pressing the sodium ring against his neck. Dr. Olivier falls in love with her, but she, in obedi¬ ence to the wishes of the hunchback at the wishing machine, presses ^the ring

it and pours sodium poison in

his laboratory. " ‘ V “ 6 ^°° T ° f

Dr. Olivier’s life is saved by an anti¬ dote devised by himself during his own experiments along the same lines as those of Dr. Maquarri. The hunchback, his stepdaughter and his servant Felix, to whom Professor Maquarri has promised Joan, take ship for Joan’s native island of Montserrat, where her un¬ de, Lord Hubert Charing, is about to build a million dollar museum out of a

treasure fund obtained by his

a zodium-handled magnifying glass uuu he gives to Lord Hubert, gets him to reveal the hiding place of the treasure. He plans to obtain this, and murder him as^he has murdered Joan’s mother, by


I T WAS three weeks since Dr. Philip Olivier had met with the strange accident in his labora¬ tory, and he was not yet himself, but he had insisted on picking up the threads of his work. There wero still several grams of zodium in the Crookes tube on his table, and he wished to examine it. In the long torment of his enforced rest in bed, Dr. Olivier had exhausted his theories concerning Joan and the attempted murder. His heart was heavy, and old habit alone made him go once more to the laboratory table that had for¬ merly centered his interest.

Now, as he held the tube in his hand and studied its contents, a strange nebulous vision came to him. It was Joan he saw—Joan whom he could never dismiss from his mind or heart —but he saw her as he had never known her in reality: a struggling, eager Joan, fighting some strange

gKSSSS

llpi

a^tSssras^ up

?S ISiSxiil

tzr^ipr hcr trai1 ’ but 1

. xa's.w T<ram ^

in ^XT«C d “ nkback

sS ,S"Ml«r a

j^w.&K£ Z%a

KrSaiH

S^*s“

weeks, he thought of his secret fortTO

till -III?


WINGS OP POWER


npHE owner of the Eagle Press Clip-

*■ ping Bureau had helped Christo¬ pher C. Quinn before, and it was a shrewd move on the Irishman’s part to go directly to him next morning. Amateur scientists were usually ego¬ tists, he reasoned, and egotists gar¬ nered accounts of themselves in the press. Ten chances to one, Professor Kurt Maquarri had been a subscriber to a press clipping bureau, and since the Eagle Press Clipping Bureau was the only one with a competent inter¬ national service, he would try that first

Yes, he had been correct in his guess. Maquarri had been a subscriber for the past ten years. But the ad¬ dress to which the clippings were sent had during all that time remained the same. It was a postoffiee box at the central branch in New York. There was no clue to be traced in that direc¬ tion, then. But the tracing of clues was not what had sent Quinn to the bureau.

"This man Maquarri is a crook and a villain out of an old time melo¬ drama, Lamson, or I am much mis¬ taken,” said Quinn, leaning forward eagerly across his friend’s desk in the latter’s private office. “I have al¬ most positive proof that he has used an accomplice to attempt the murder of my best friend, Dr. Philip Olivier, and we are both off to Montserrat to gather further evidence on the next

Quinn looked at Edgar Lamson speculatively. Never before had he asked him deliberately to falsify a record, but he would risk it now.

“Dr. Olivier, as you may know, is the grandson of the famous Dr. Philip Maquarri, of Florence, Italy. He is, therefore, a half nephew of Professor Kurt Maquarri. If the newspaper ac¬ count of Dr. Olivier’s death should mention him as Dr. Philip Maquarri Olivier, which is his full name, it would be perfectly natural for you to

mark the name Maquarri with a blue pencil and send the clipping to the professor, eh?”

Lamson nodded. He grasped the lawyer’s meaning, but he hesitated. His business was an old and reliable one, but still—Christopher C. Quinn was on the side of law and order, en¬ gaged in hunting down a criminal, and he had never known Christopher C. Quinn to exaggerate.

“We shall, of course, pay for the cost of printing the notices,” contin¬ ued Quinn, “and we shall have some half dozen copies run off. You call send two, dutifully blue-penciled, to the professor at Montserrat, keep two for your files, and let us have the other two in case we should need them at

Quinn pulled out of his pocket the draft of the notice he had already written, and handed it to Lamson.

When he left the office, half an hour later, everything was arranged. A rush order had gone to the printer, and the short obituary notice would be run through that day. Lamson, contrary to custom, promised to at¬ tend to the cutting and pasting of the faked notices, and to blue-penciling and mailing them for the same boat on which Olivier and Quinn would sail in two days’ time to Montserrat. Then, with Maquarri satisfied that his schemes had succeeded, they could, with a slight disguise, move about on the small island and find out what they wanted.

T fn days later, when the Amazonia docked at Plymouth, in the island of Montserrat, Christopher C. Quinn walked down the gang-plank, support¬ ing a tall, elderly gentleman with gray hair and a surprisingly young face, in spite of his invalid’s cane. Mr. Oliver Phillips, as he had been known on board ship, bore little trace of Philip Olivier in his appearance. Quinn, skilled in such matters, had seen to his disguise.



That afternoon, the day’s post was delivered at the Charing plantation house nine miles out of Plymouth, and Felix carried the letters to Professor Maquarri, at work as usual in his

Professor Maquarri was not a man of many affairs. The secret, devious courses of his life precluded all but the few necessary contacts, and the post was never an ex¬ citing event in his day. He languid¬ ly glanced over the few business let¬ ters, forwarded from his post-office box in New York City, and singled out the one envelope bearing the words “Eagle Press Clipping Bureau” in its upper corner. His notices in the press were meager enough, but he was always delighted when he saw his name in print, and so he had con¬ tinued for years to subscribe to the service. For years he had been known as an entomologist of some achieve¬ ment, and so there had been a con¬ stant trickle of news in the papers— dry, dull stuff, read only by fellow entomologists, probably.

Professor Maquarri started glee¬ fully, however, as he called Felix’s attention to the blue-peneiled notice in his hand. There it ran, the notice of his rival’s death.

September 2, 1923—After an illness of three weeks, Dr. Philip Maquarri Olivier, grandson of the late Dr. Philip Maquarri, of Florence, Italy, died at his home here today. Death was due to an accident which occurred in Dr. Olivier’s labora-

“Good!” muttered Maquarri. “It is well we have made sure. Now we shall be able to use the same methods on Lord Hubert without fear.”

“What if it should not kill him promptly?” asked Felix. “What if he, too, should linger on for three weeks, as the young American doctor did?”

“ffm! I have thought of that my¬ self. We will make the dose doubly strong, that is all.”

“When shall it be, then, Maestro?” “Soon, very soon now. Only the fact that Lord Hubert prolonged his stay at St. John’s with his architect has delayed me. He is due back in three days’ time, and then we shall find out the treasure’s hiding place. After that, it only remains for us to closet the girl with him, as usual, and take our place at the wishing maI N the three days time that had elapsed since Quinn and Olivier had come to the island of Montserrat, little had happened. Quinn, repre¬ senting himself as an amateur scien¬ tist, interested in entomology, had called on Lord Hubert, only to find that the latter was in St. John’s, An¬ tigua, with his niece and secretary, Miss Suffem, and that they were ex¬ pected back before the end of the

Olivier, however, gloated over the news. Joan was still alive and well, apparently, or she could not have gone on the trip with her uncle. The boat from St. John’s was due late of a Thursday afternoon, and though Quinn argued and pleaded with him, he was determined to wait on the dock and see Joan as she came on shore.

“I promise to make no sign, and she will never recognize me,” said Olivier, and Quinn had to be content with that.

The lights on the quay were already lighted on that rainy, blustery after¬ noon in mid-September, as Christo¬ pher C. Quinn and Dr. Olivier paced up and down. Out in the harbor, the winking lights of the ship came grad¬ ually nearer.

As the two men waited, Quinn with his hat pulled well do™ over his eyes, and Olivier in his gray wig and habit¬ ual disguise, an old-fashioned carriage rattled down the street toward the quay. Lord Hubert was notoriously old-fashioned and penurious. Grudg¬ ing the expense of repairing the roads leading to his plantation, he had never

WINGS OP POWER


purchased a motor car, and the lum¬ bering carriage which his father had used still served his needs. The car¬ riage stopped at the quay, and Pro¬ fessor Kurt Maquarri alighted.

Quinn pulled Olivier with him back into the shadow of a stack of boxes, as Professor Maquarri passed within a few feet of them. Yes, it was un¬ doubtedly the man they were looking for, the bearded hunchback who had stolen Olivier’s secrets and tried to instigate his murder, but this was not the moment to strike.

The boat was docking by now, and in a few minutes the gang-plank was lowered and the passengers began to straggle off. Olivier clutched his friend’s arm as he caught sight of Joan, talking to her maid, followed by a tall, striking Englishman who must have been Lord Charing, her un¬ cle. He started forward as if to call her, forgetful of his promise to Quinn, but the latter threw him a warning growl as Professor Maquarri stepped forward unctuously to welcome his host back to the island.

“I must see her at once,” muttered Olivier, as the old carriage clattered away down the street toward the road winding along the sea to the planta¬ tion. “I must get a message to her tonight, or tomorrow at latest. ”

He looked doubtfully at the stormy sky, which showed no signs of abating its steady downpour.

“If only I can warn her to fight against the hypnotic power which Ma¬ quarri exerts over her—if only I can make her realize that she is hypno¬ tized—then she will be safe enough until we can tighten the net around the villain!”

"It’s madness, utter madness, Phil!”

Quinn, all Sherlock Holmes for the moment, realized that he had to do with the impulses of a man deeply in love, and he trembled lest something should rent the net he was gathering around Professor Maquarri. But. as Olivier insisted, he gave in.

“Wait here, then, in the shadow of these boxes, while I reconnoiter. ’ ’

Christopher C. Quinn pretended to be looking impatiently down the street lcadiug to the quay, as if he expected a conveyance to meet him, as Lord Hubert’s party climbed into his car¬ riage.

“Oh, uncle!” cried Joan; “Susan must stop at the chemist’s shop to have a prescription filled for me. We used the last of my sleeping medicine two nights ago, and I shall go mad if I lie awake tonight!”

“Very well,” said Lord Hubert im¬ patiently; “let her ride out in the sta¬ tion wagon with Pedro and the bag¬ gage, then. We must be getting on

Quinn just waited to see the party finally packed into the coach before he turned back to Olivier.

“It’s the girl’s maid, Susan, who seems devoted. She’s to stay behind and wait for a prescription at the chemist’s, and you can give her a note for her mistress if you waylay her there.”

The two men followed the coach at a good distance down the street lead¬ ing from the quay. It stopped beforo a chemist’s shop and then lumbered on, leaving Susan behind. Quinn walked a little more quickly as the carriage increased the distance be-

“I found out this afternoon, Phil,” said Quinn, "that Maquarri spends a good many nights in the town of Plymouth. Pedro, the overlooker on Lord Charing’s estate, gave me the in¬ formation. I was questioning him dis¬ creetly, but he seemed almost eager to speak against the professor and his master as well—evidently thinks they’re both cut out of the same cloth, and he has a grudge against the spe¬ cies. Pedro doesn’t know where he stays yet, but I’ve an idea he has rea¬ sons of his own for wanting to find out. Cherchez la femme, perhaps. At any rate, it’s my theory that if we can track him to his lair, we shall be


WEIBD

able to find the evidence on which to take out a warrant for his arrest—”

“You mean,” interrupted Olivier, “you mean he keeps the secret formu¬ lae there—wherever it is—and his own supply of sodium?”

“It’s aii idea that came to me this morning, Phil, when I saw him in the town. Pedro’s story strengthened my theory. Then just now I overheard Professor Maquarri tell Lord Charing that he had important business in town to attend to and could not dine at the plantation, but ho would ride out later.”

“Tonight?”

“Evidently. So 1 shall just leave you here to transact your business with the maid when she comes out of the chemist’s shop, and I shall follow that carriage when it turns the corner at the end of the street.”

O livier watched Christopher C.

Quinn as he shortened the dis¬ tance between himself and the car¬ riage. Then, when both had turned the corner, he took up his stand out¬ side the chemist’s and waited for Su¬ san to emerge.

He started forward as the cloaked figure of the Scotchwoman appeared in the doorway. His manner was all ingratiating courtesy as he prepared to speak to the woman, but when she spied him, Susan gave a start of rccog-

“Yes, yes, I know, sir,” she inter¬ rupted. after Olivier’s first few words. "I recognized you at once from the picture in the magazine Miss Joan had. You’re the doctor she went to in New York—who seemed to do her some good for a time—”

“And I’m here to do her more good!” cried Olivier. “If only you will help me! Listen, I’ve reason to think you don’t trust Professor Ma¬ quarri any more than I do, so I’ll tell you a secret. He has hypnotized Miss Suffem time and again and made her carry out his bidding—” “Hypnotized her!”

TALES

Susan almost dropped her precious bottle of medicine. She could scarcely contain her indignation.

“Yes, it must be true! She acted bo queer, so almost daft, at times! ’ ’

“Well, then,” continued Olivier, “I must see her, and at once. Tonight. I must warn her to use all her forces, all her power of strength and will to resist that outside influence. I can help her, of course, but the real fight is in her own hands, and I must warn

Susan nodded, her practical Scotch mind already finding a way.

“There’s a lime grove hard by the house, sir, where you can wait.”

She considered for a minute.

“She and her uncle work at night on his book—in the library. Write her a note, sir, which I will see that she gets before dinner tonight, and tell her you’ll give her some signal while she is at work with her uncle, so she can come out to the grove to

Olivier had started to scribble his note before Susan had finished speak-

“ There are plenty of moths flut¬ tering about the lighted windows at night down in this country, aren’t there?”

Susan nodded, not comprehending.

‘ ‘ But they almost never get through the peculiarly constructed tropical shutters, eh?”

“No, sir. There are plenty of them in the garden and outside the win¬ dows, though.”

“Good!”

Olivier bent once more over his note, and then handed it to Susan to read.

“Joan dearest,” the note ran, “Su¬ san will tell you of meeting me. I have come to Montserrat especially to help you. When I flutter a white moth through the blinds of the library tonight, meet me in the lime grove out¬ side. Until then, and always, Phil.”

Pedro, driving the station wagon, piled with bags, drew up at the door of the shop, and Susan climbed m.

WINGS OP POWER


The wagon clattered off, leaving the young doctor to his own devices for several hours.

An inquiry at his hotel satisfied him that Quinn had not returned from trailing Maquarri, and Olivier wan¬ dered out on the streets of the town to satisfy his impatience until the hour when Susan had told him to ride out to the plantation.

The rain had ceased by now, and a sharp wind blew black scudding clouds, somehow strangely menacing, aeross the indigo blue of the tropical night and the face of the moon. Olivier found himself on the outskirts of the town, following a path that led along the cliffs by the sea. As the wind gained, the booming of the surf against the rocks drowned out all other sounds, and Olivier stood there for a long time, following his own thoughts, before he turned back.

His path led past a small hamlet of native shacks, and in one house at the edge of the group, unmindful of him, Professor Maquarri and Felix d’Acos¬ ta were closeted together. The wish¬ ing machine stood rigged up on a ta¬ ble in the center of the small hurri¬ cane cellar where the two men talked.

“Tonight, Felix, I shall ride out to the plantation after dinner and beg Lord Hubert, as a special favor, to give me the final data for my mono¬ graph on the Yucca moth. While I am with him, in his study, you shall stay here at the machine to influence him to disclose to me finally and ex¬ actly the suspected hiding place of the treasure.”

Felix nodded, and the hunchback continued:

"Tomorrow morning, then, you take the boat for St. John’s as arranged, ostensibly to carry my proofs to the printer there, you understand, but really to have you out of the way, in case suspicion points to us later. To¬ morrow, during the day, while you are gone, I mean to strike! We have waited too long as it is.”

Felix’s eyes questioned his master, and Maquarri smiled.

“Lord Hubert is a man of great in¬ fluence in the West Indies, as you know. You may be sure both you and I will come in for some questioning after his death. Therefore, if it is known that you are in St. John’s on the day of the murder, and if I am seen just before and just after the hour at certain shops in Plymouth— as I shall take good care that I shall be seen—they will never dare to sus¬ pect so good an alibi. Lord Hubert’s death will be mysterious, perhaps, but they will soon give it up.”


that same evening, after dinner, Joan Suffem sat alone in the library. Her eyes shone, and her whole attitude was one of eager ex¬ pectancy as she glanced first at the door and then at the window, shut¬ tered as usual against the tropical

Out of the front of her dress Joan pulled Olivier’s short note, and scanned it eagerly again. When a white moth fluttered through the shut¬ ters! She could scarcely wait for the moment to come, and bent forward eagerly, as if to hasten her lover’s coming by sheer force of will. A noise outside warned her, and she had barely time to stuff the note inside her bodice before Lord Hubert, armed for the evening’s work, appeared in the doorway.

Joan knew her uncle’s fanatical temper in regard to his work, but still she hoped to circumvent it. She started to plead a headache, but other peo¬ ple’s pain was never a reality to Lord Hubert, self-centered and egotistical, and he brushed aside the girl’s ex¬ cuses. Joan was in despair, one eye forever seeking the window, but the signal had not come as yet, and she trusted to her wits to escape when it did come.



Olivier was a strange figure, and certainly not one that Joan would have expected to see as he crept cau¬ tiously toward the library window. At the last moment he had decided to cling to the gray wig of his disguise, in case anyone should run into him in the dark garden, and he had put on the military uniform and cape which Quinn had procured that day for his own disguise.

Following Susan’s directions, Oli¬ vier marked the library window through which he meant to flutter his strange signal. Cautiously he crept up, hand over hand, and raised him¬ self by means of the stout vines that framed the window. The shutters were closed, as usual, but through the narrow slits of the blinds he could make out Joan, bending over the table beside her uncle.

At the same moment Joan, feeling his presence outside, looked up. A great white moth fluttered through the blind, and flapped about the room, whirring against the ceiling, darting in zigzag lines at the lamp on the ta¬ ble.

As Olivier let himself carefully down and started across the moonlit lawn toward the lime grove, he stepped behind a large hush as the sound of wheels on the gravel road close by reached his ears. One second sooner, and he would have been dis¬ covered. He caught his breath as he saw the bearded hunchback lolling back in the open carriage, but evi¬ dently the man had not spied him, for the carriage went on, and soon the hunchback had mounted the steps of the house.

Joan’s second plea of the headache had had little effect on her uncle, and she was just about to consider open rebellion when Professor Maquarri was ushered in.

“Ah, my good friend,” he began unctuously to Lord Hubert, “a thou¬ sand pardons for disturbing you to¬ night, but I am sending Felix over to St. John’s in the morning with my

manuscript for the printer, and I found myself snagged on a few points. I rode out here hoping you would be good enough to look at my specimens again in your study, and perhaps clear up my difficulty.”

Lord Hubert was on his feet in a moment, his vanity and egotism ca¬ ressed by Maquarri’s deferring to him on a special subject, and Joan breathed a sigh of relief. The two men were scarcely out of the room before she sped across to the library window. No, he was not there. He would be waiting outside in the lime grove.

The young trees in the lime grove, scarcely larger than good-sized shrubs, grew within three or four feet of each other, their thick, glossy foliage form¬ ing an effective screen from the sight of anyone outside the grove. Fearing to frighten Joan, Olivier had taken off his gray wig, throwing it on the ground with his cape and widebrimmed hat, as he heard her coming. She rounded one of the small trees and stopped almost beside him. For a long moment they looked at each other, the memory of the weeks of separation in their eyes. Then, with¬ out a word, Joan was in his arms. He did not even caress her at first. It was heaven enough to be there, close to her, to hold her against him, to feel her heart beat. Safe with him at last!

Then he started to kiss her, softly, gently, at first, but as his pent-up longing found expression, he drew her closer. Round about them stood the sturdy little lime trees. Against the waxy, dark green foliage on the thorny branches, the little golden nug¬ gets, not yet ripe enough to fall, gleamed. On the grass at their feet lay the deep golden limes that had al¬ ready dropped from the branches.

After a little while they began to talk. Joan asked the meaning of Olivier’s uniform, and with the ques¬ tion the magic world of love retreated

WINGS OF POWER


and he remembered the purpose of their meeting.

Strange, he thought, that she had said no word about his illness, about stabbing him back there in his labora¬ tory. Well, she had never known she did it, then. He was glad it had been as he suspected. What form of hyp¬ notism her stepfather had used on her he could not tell, but he would be hap¬ py if she never knew how close she had come to murdering him.

“Listen, Joan,” he said, “I am in disguise because I am trying to find evidence against your stepfather. Pro¬ fessor Maquarri.”

Joan started in terror, but his smile reassured her.

“I have discovered what it was that troubled you—that baffled us both— about your mental illness in New York. Your stepfather has been hyp-

“No, no, no! I will not have it!” cried Joan. “ It isn’t possible! ’ ’

“You are right,” answered Olivier firmly. “It isn’t possible now that you know. Now that you are warned, when you feel his influence, you must fight it. Simply fight it back, that is all.”

“Oh, but I am afraid,” Joan whim¬ pered, huddling back against the tree. “I have always feared him, but this —this I cannot stand!”

“Be braye, my darling,” urged Olivier. “So much depends on your bravery during the next twenty-four hours. Quinn and I are ready to tighten the net. Another day, if we are lucky, will see the evidence against him in our hands, and then will come the warrant for his arrest.”

“But tonight! Tonight—tonight I cannot stand—”, stammered Joan, holding her head distractedly.

“Listen to me, darling. Do you think I would leave you here if there were any danger? I happen to know that Professor Maquarri is going back to Plymouth tonight. Quinn found it out earlier in the day. Well, we must simply trace him to the place

in Plymouth where he hides, and the rest is merely a matter of taking out a warrant for his arrest, or I am much mistaken. ’ ’

Joan listened dazedly as he ex¬ plained the situation. She was still afraid, but she tried to summon the courage her lover demanded of her.

“Let us go nearer the edge of the grove,” she whispered, “where we can watch the windows of Uncle Hu¬ bert ’s study. When the lights go out there it will mean that he—that my stepfather—is leaving. Then it will be time for you to start ahead of him and find Pedro with your waiting

S ome time later as Olivier rode down the long road to Plymouth, lined with tall coconut palms, he heard the faint crunching of the wheels of Maquarri’s carriage behind him. He decided to keep on at the same pace for a while and let the professor gain gradually on him. Sooner or later he would have to pass him on the road, and then he could follow and find out his hiding place in the town.

For several miles things went on in this manner, the hunchback’s car¬ riage gradually shortening the dis¬ tance between him and the gray¬ haired officer on horseback. Sudden¬ ly, however, it occurred to Maquarri that although the man on horseback had not once looked back, he was nev¬ ertheless measuring his pace to keep with the slower pace of the vehicle behind him. Was the man a thug, who would turn at the right moment, at the loneliest part of the road, and gallop back to attack him? Or could it be that one of the government offi¬ cers was on his trail?

They were within a quarter of a mile of the town, and the road took a diagonal turn before following the cliffs and the sea. Maquarri was just trying to make up his mind about the horseman in front of him when an¬ other rider rounded the turn of the



road. He pulled up short, in surprize, and evidently greeted the officer, for he wheeled his horse about and bothmen followed the road to Plymouth.

Maquarri was not sure, of course, but his- plans, were too near fruition for him to take any chances. He leaned forward cautiously and spoke in a low voice to his driver.

“I shall just get out here/’ he said, “and take a short cut across the fields to my home. ’ ’

He eyed the man shrewdly, slipping a silver coin into his hand.

“If those men ahead there question you as to when I left the carriage, you must pretend to be surprized yourself that I am no longer there.”

And springing down agilely from the steps, of the carriage as it kept on its slow way, Maquarri had in a few seconds disappeared beyond the screen of the tall trees- and was creeping in a erouched position through the cane fields.

Olivier turned suddenly in his sad¬ dle as he detected a slight change in the rate at which the carriage followed him. He called out to Quinn, and both riders plunged from the road across the eane fields. A moving black spot off there among the eane gave them their direction, and the chose began. Maquarri, who could dodge in and- out among the cane, had the better of them from the first, for he doubled on his tracks and lay down flat in the cane for a few minutes. Then he would wriggle his way to another vantage point, and : start doubling back toward the town. Quinn, who saw that the man on foot had the advantage over them, jumped from his horse and plunged through the eane.

Maquarri turned as he found that the younger man was gaining on him. Olivier, who had galloped on ahead, on a false clue, had wheeled about now, and seeing Quinn’s riderless horse, he had himself dismounted, and started off after the two men. Ma¬ quarri pulled out his pistol as his ad¬

versaries closed in on him. There was a flash and a report,, and Quinn fell. Olivier dared not go to him at the moment, hut crashed after the hunchback.

Quinn’s horse galloped up, badly frightened, and as Olivier’s shot rang out, just missing the dodging hunch¬ back, the latter grasped the horse’s bridle and swung himself up into the saddle. A sharp lash with the reins, and the horse started like lightning across the cane fields. Olivier’s own horse was nowhere to be seen, and it was hopeless to try to pursue the man on foot. By the irony of circumstance, where the horse had been practically useless in tracking down the dodging man among the cane, he gave Ma¬ quarri, trying to escape, an unlimited advantage over the others.

Olivier, realizing himself beaten for the moment, turned to Quinn, who lay groaning where Maquarri’s bullet had sprawled him.

“It’s nothing, a hole in the leg, that’s all,” Quinn reassured him, “hut the worst of it is that devil’s escaped again.”


A s olivxer sat beside his friend’s bed late that night, a dull boom¬ ing roar came from the surf on the cliffs near the town. He looked out of the window. The moon was com¬ pletely hidden, and menacing black clouds raced across the sky. He awoke several times during the night, and each time he heard the heavy boom¬ ing of the surf.

Next morning Quinn was so much better that he raged at Olivier for keeping him in bed.

“See here, Chris!” the yonng doetor cried; “ you ’ll have to give me your promise, and that’s final. I don’t leave you unless you do, and I must get out to the plantation as early as possible and bring Joan back here. I don’t know what that devil of a step¬ father will do now that he knows we are on his trail.”

WINGS OP POWER


Quinn had just yielded to the doc¬ tor’s insistence when there came a knock at the door. Olivier opened it to find Pedro, overlooker on Lord Hu¬ bert’s estate, standing behind the bell-

“I’ve an urgent message for you, sir, from Miss Joan,” he said, as Oli¬ vier motioned him into the room and shut the door.

“Last night, sir, after I’d given you your horse, Miss Joan went to Susan Forsythe — the Scotchwoman, you know—and told her you were trying to find out where Professor Maquarri went when he stayed the night in Plymouth. She said the arrest of her stepfather today depended on your finding that out, so Susan thought of me. Maquarri never paid any atten¬ tion to me, but the quadroon, Mariquita, and I have had dealings, and I had reason to watch her. I shad¬ owed her one night, and saw the pro¬ fessor come out of her house. He re¬ proached her for not returning ear¬ lier, and acted like he was a regular visitor to the house, so when I told all this to Susan, she and Miss Joan sent me off here in a great hurry and bade me tell the same story to you.”

OHvier and Quinn were plainly ex-

“ Could you take me to that house now? Immediately?” cried Olivier.

“It would have to be right away, sir. The professor has gone to the dock to see Mr. Felix off to St. John’s, and I passed the woman, Mariquita, just now on her way to market. It will be an hour before the professor returns, and it will take Mariquita as long to fill her market basket, but we had best be off at once, sir.”

As Olivier made his way down Par¬ liament Street with the overlooker, his hopes beat high. He would go im¬ mediately to the governor of the island and lay his case before him. Then would come the warrant for Ma¬ quarri ’s arrest, and Joan would be finally safe. That afternoon, or eve¬

ning at the latest, he could ride out to her with the news.

“Hey there, Pedro, is the boat sailing for St. John’s this morning, do you know ? ” sang out a shopkeeper, standing in his doorway.

“Yes, I think so. Why shouldn’t it? Just because the barometer is a bit low? We’ve had these hurricane scares before, you know.”

“Yes, but this time the barometer’s down to 30.03, and the wind hasn’t shifted. If it falls to four tenths and the wind doesn’t change, we’ll be in the direct path of a hurricane before afternoon, you’ll see.”

Pedro laughed as he turned to Olivier.

“He’s the joke of the island, sir. Richest merchant in town, and always in dread of the hurricane. Nobody pays any attention to him any more. We’re always having close scares this time of the year.”

In a few minutes the two men had reached the cottage at the edge of the small hamlet which Olivier had passed the night before. Pedro, who seemed to know the place well, took Olivier around to the rear door and inserted a key in the lock. He gave no explana¬ tion of how he had come by that key, and Olivier, who could form his own conclusions, asked no questions. Pedro kept watch outside while Olivier quickly padded about through the three small rooms of the cottage. He was looking for a place where his formul® and the supply of zodium might be, but there was no trace of

“Pedro, Pedro,” he called softly, “the door to the hurricane cellar is locked. Have you a key to it, by any chance?”

Pedro shook his head. Well, never mind, thought Olivier. If the cellar door was locked, it was evidently for a reason. People did not usually lock the door to the one refuge in case the dreaded hurricane took them by sur¬ prize. He would risk it. He would swear out a warrant of arrest on the

WINGS OP POWER


He made his way against the gale down Parliament Street toward his hotel, and persuaded the livery man to let him have his fastest horse.

"I can’t do it, sir, without a sub¬ stantial deposit,” the man demurred at first. “Horses are my livelihood, you know, and the chances are he’ll be killed before you reach the plan¬ tation. It’s a risky ride, sir, and I’d advise you against it, but if you want to leave forty pounds on deposit, which is what he cost me, I’ll let you

It seemed to Olivier an eternity be¬ fore the cashier at his hotel had cashed his check and he had turned over the notes to the livery man, but at last he was on the horse, clattering down Parliament Street toward the open road.

The wind increased each minute in fury, and his horse staggered and gasped, rearing back against the wall of a building. Olivier dismounted and dragged him up the street until they reached the avenue of royal palms winding along the shore to the Charing plantation. Then he mount¬ ed, once more, and flattened himself on the horse as it flew along. The trees bent and creaked in the wind, their long, bladelike leaves writhing in agony. The rain began to pound on the hard road and on the fields of young sugar-cane on either side. But there was another noise, a terrible, deafening clatter, that made itself heard above the roar of the storm. Olivier looked up and traced it to the enormous dry pods on the tall “shag¬ gy-shaggy ’’trees, as the negroes called them, which kept up a deafening, con¬ tinuous rattle.

The warning messengers of the hur¬ ricane itself had not yet reached the Charing plantation, but the wind had risen, and the negroes were terrified. They streamed out of the sugar mill on the estate and made their way to¬ ward the plantation house and the hurricane cellar, where they huddled

in fear whenever the hurricane scare, whether false or real, came to the is¬ land.

J oan and her uncle were intent over their work in the latter’s study. Lord Hubert bent over the microscope, dictating notes to Joan, who stood at his side. The girl seemed to be struggling against something, she knew not what, and she pushed back her hair with the old distracted gesture. Then something seemed suddenly to hold her in its grip, and she shuddered. The fight was hope¬ less. The wishing machine and Maquarri’s power were greater than her own recently awakened instinct to fight, and the zodium waves held her in their grip. Her face became once more a set mask, and her eyes took on their unseeing stare. But it was a shrewd, cunning automaton who worked there with her uncle. Maquarri was forcing all her intelligence to await the exact moment to strike, and once, as she got up and stood over her uncle, fingering the poison zodium ring, she shook her head, for he looked up at the instant, and mo¬ tioned that she examine the specimen he had under the microscope. The moment was not yet ready, and un¬ knowing, unconscious, she worked in the grip of MaqUarri’s desires.

But at the moment there was the loud roar of the wind as it shifted and reached the plantation house, and both Joan and her uncle sprang for¬ ward to struggle with the heavy hur¬ ricane shutters. They tugged and pulled, while the wind flapped the great blinds on their iron hinges, but at last the bolts were shot and the windows secured. At the same instant the wind did its mischief with the electric wires, and the room went suddenly dark. Joan groped her way over to the shelf in the corner, and striking several matches, finally suc¬ ceeded in lighting the candles which stood always ready for just such an emergency.



As she and her uncle settled once more to their work, Maquarri bent still over his machine. Mariquita, the quadroon, eame clattering down into the hurricane cellar, casting a look of fury and scorn at him, but he saw nothing.' She made her way over to the one narrow window that furnished air to the cellar, and swung the hur¬ ricane shutter to, but the gale in the town was by now in its full fury and the heavy wooden blind flapped and tugged in her hands. She succeeded in pulling it to, but the wind had broken off one of its hinges, and she had to press against the shutter with all her weight to keep it closed. She struggled there, muttering curses and reproaches at the hunchback, but, still unheedful, he sat crouching over his machine.

As Olivier, riding with the wind along the avenue, saw the square bulk of the gray stone Charing house in the distance, his horse suddenly reared and then swerved. A giant palm had leapt from the earth, uprooted, and sprawled across the road. The terri¬ fied horse dashed in terror across a cane field. The rain was falling in torrents, but Olivier gave him the reins and they flew across the fields in a short cut to the house.

Now he approached a small stone stable, at the foot of the avenue lead¬ ing to the house, and he stopped there to stall his horse, for he saw that the place was safe. The sweating animal made straight for the open door and the stable, and Olivier lost no time in tying him fast and bolting the door.

He staggered toward the house. His linen coat and shirt were tom al¬ most to ribbons by the ride in the wind and rain. His hair lay plastered flat against his head. Now on his knees, now crawling on his stomach for a part of the way, hut never dar¬ ing to stand, Olivier made his slow progress along the last hundred yards to the house. He reached the comer of the wall, his arm pressed hard against his eyes, and tried to rise. The

wind picked him up with a vicious flip and he landed at the foot of the steps. In a moment, however, he had recovered his breath, and he managed to stagger to the door of the house. He battered on it with one fist while with his other hand he clung to the knob lest the wind carry him off.

As a frightened darky let him in¬ side the door, Olivier looked about desperately.

“Miss Joan, where is she?” he cried.

“Lawdy, sir, Miss Joan and Lord Hubert, dey doan’ pay no ’tention to de storm. Dey’s workin’, workin’, all de time in him’s study, sir.”

Olivier waited to hear no more. He made a dash for the stairs, but as he mounted the first two steps, one of the hurricane windows in the hall came unfastened, and the wind rushed in as if about to lift the house from its foundations. The terrified darky yelled to Olivier for help, and he turned to tug and pull with him until the window was once more shut and the bolt secured.

A s Olivier sat beside his friend’s hurricane window, in the same house Joan, upstairs with her uncle, once more moved stealthily toward him. Both seemed under the wishing machine’s fiendish spell, impervious to the storm outside, and Joan’s face

mask. Lord Hubert bent over his microscope, and Joan stood over him. She looked down at his throat and fingered the deadly ring on her hand. She stood poised and ready to plunge the beetle’s fang into his throat as Olivier bounded up the stairs.

He pounded on the panels, but the door was thick, and the storm outside made such a racket that the girl heard nothing. Desperately Olivier pounded and called, but Joan, caught in the wishing machine’s spell, showed no sign. She waited, waited, for the right moment to plunge the ring’s poisoned fang.

g?rSS*3r3

trS5r r " s “"»”

mm stmm.

Sssi-J

ICTOR STAPLETON, artist, seated himself opposite the gloomy black curtains that cov¬ ered the folding doors separating his studio from the next room.

“I want to paint something differ¬ ent,” he thought, “something to wake them up! Gruesome, perhaps, but with a touch of pathos and the evernecessary feminine interest!”

It had occurred to him that gazing at certain objects which have the ef¬ fect of not imposing any marked im¬ pression on the mind leaves that or¬ gan freer to roam the realms of imag¬ ination. The crystal used by the seer has no intrinsic power of revealing past or future, but the watcher, be¬ cause his eyes, though open, see only the crystal’s nothingness which neu¬ tralizes the immediate earthly sights, brings his mind into a receptive state for supernormal visions.

It suggested itself to the artist that those black, velvet curtains might take the place of the crystal and give him precisely that effect of staring into nothingness.

Long he sat, pondering, conjuring up fanciful scenes, mentally placing one character in juxtaposition with another of harshly opposite tenden¬ cies; raking over half-forgotten ideas of his earliest imaginings for startling subjects; now shutting his eyes com¬ pletely, now through half-closed lids,

allowing his sight to play upon the black curtains. But nothing came. No passion-filled, new idea swept into his brain. No grotesque fantasm, molded from life’s realities, flashed before him, to be caught, analyzed and committed to tangible pigments and canvas.

His thoughts strayed from the in¬ tended picture and he began to muse idly on the man who had recently taken the next room to his. Old Mr. Pland was reputed to be a miser, and wild tales had been told of his stran¬ gling the poor relations who came to him begging for a share of his gold. Victor had not yet seen him, but the landlady had chattered, and he had once spoken a word to the old man’s granddaughter, a girl of singular beauty, possessed of masses of golden hair that had excited the artist’s pic¬ torial instinct. He had frequently heard the girl and the old man quar¬ reling, and the landlady had ex¬ pressed a fear that some day the miser would kill his granddaughter, as he was said to have killed his other rela¬ tions. “And then,” she had added tremulously, “he’ll thrust her body away somewhere to get it out of his sight!”

Hours passed and the artist was about to give up his vigil, as nothing came—nothing came—Hush!

What was that?




A hand, lean and yellow, was slowly pushing its way through the black curtains.

The artist was on his feet, his eyes staring, a strange sinking sensation pervading his whole body.

Then appeared the head, the grin¬ ning, maniacal face, of a yellow and shriveled old man, blinking and leer¬ ing at the artist with baleful eyes.

“I—I didn’t know you were in,” wheezed a voice. “You were so very quiet! I—I would like to make your acquaintance. Won’t you come into my room? It is larger than yours. You are an artist, eh? I have many things of interest to an artist. I have a granddaughter! Ha! ”

He chuckled in a weirdly enticing way, while a second skinny claw ap¬ peared and rubbed itself over the

Victor was indignant at the intru¬ sion, but inclined to forgive the old man because he was reputed to be half-witted. Perhaps he really did need human companionship . . .

besides — the granddaughter! — with hair of gold!

He followed the old man through the black curtains and into the room which the folding doors had conT hey sat together in a musty room breathing antiquity from every comer, before a little oil stove. One feeble gas jet sent its yellow rays down upon the miser’s cheerless face. His mouth was toothless, his nose hooked and seemingly as devoid of flesh as the beak of a bird. The skin was stretched so tightly over his tem¬ ples that his skull seemed to be break¬ ing through it to summon its owner to the grave; while the cheeks were so sunken that the artist fancied, with a quaint twist of thought, that they must have encroached uncomfortably upon his mouth space.

This strange old man seemed well aware of his own shortcomings, for

his eyes gloated upon the handsome face and physique of the artist.

Noting the latter’s glances of dis¬ taste around the room, he laid his yellow talon on his knee and said: “Looks old and shriveled, doesn’t it? Like its owner! But it has hidden beauties! There is gold hidden here! Yes, gold!”

His shrill voice arose to a shriek and he writhed in delight.

“Gold! Hidden gold! And—” (he crept over and put his dry lips close to the artist’s ear) “it’s yours! the gold is all yours — if you can find it!”

He wriggled back into his chair, his limbs shivering with mocking laugh¬ ter at what he thought a magnificent joke . . . “If you can find it!”

Then, as Victor remained silent, sickened by the atmosphere of the place, he continued briskly: “Look for it! Search for the gold! Get up! If you find it, it’s yours!”

Thankful for an excuse for moving about, and shaking the horror from him, Victor arose and began the strangest search that even his Bohe¬ mian existence, spent among art treasures, antiques and grotesqueries, had ever led him into.

He opened first the top drawer of a desk, ancient and emitting an odor of decay. He inserted his hand; the light was too feeble to trust alone to sight. He withdrew it with a cry of horror, echoed by a mirthless chuckle from the old man. His touch had en¬ countered the five hewn fingers of a human hand!

He pulled the drawer wide open.

The old man laughed. His cries rang through the room.

“Not there!” he howled. “Not that time! Some one else looked there—and you see what happened to

It was true, then, as the landlady had said. This detestable old wretch murdered the people, kinfolk no doubt, who came to him for money,

re “ d! ” ss

In WEIRD TALES for April

The

HAUNTING EYES

By EUDORA RAMSAY RICHARDSON

Author of “The Voice of Euphemiti’

A powerful tale of ghostly justice and the tortures of remorse

On Sale Everywhere March First

He Listened to a Fearsome and Almost Incredible Tale, and He Realized It Was True

The BAND of GOLD

By JACK WOODFORD

“TTTHEN one has money,” reyy marked Lester Copley, Iazi- ▼ T ly swinging one leg across the other and inhaling deeply of his cigar, “one can do anything.”

“Right you are,” agreed Enrique, the cynic, “and it is the fault of such men as you that this is so.”

Copley looked up in mild surprize.

“The fault of such men as you,” repeated Enrique, firmly. “Still, after all, perhaps I am a little hasty; for, when one looks deeper into the situation, one comes inevitably to the conclusion that, after all, it is the fault of society at large—that is, di¬ rectly. Indirectly, you, my dear Cop¬ ley, are one of those upon whom cen-

“Why?” Copley scented an argu¬ ment, and although Enrique invaria¬ bly got the best of him, Copley never failed to profit by the interchange.

“Because you will not print facts about the wealthy that if given pub¬ licity would. . . . You admit, of course, that you do suppress certain facts in the lives of—”

“Never,” said Copley, decisively. "Our reporters, our editors, under¬ stand that they are to get the truth and print it—regardless!”

Enrique laughed tolerantly.

“That course, my dear friend, as you well know, would wreck any American newspaper in two weeks.”

“Stuff and nonsense—what have we suppressed?”

Enrique waved his hand as if to in¬ dicate that the retort was worthless.

“My dear Copley, why do you inCopley grinned, a way he had— this gesture never failed to rouse En¬ rique; this, perhaps, was why Copley so often did it. Enrique frowned.

“My dear Copley, I shall tell you a story, the facts of which can be easily checked up. This story, if printed, would make the greatest fea¬ ture story that any American news¬ paper ever heard of—and I assert without fear of successful contradic¬ tion (as your editorial writers might phrase it) that you not only will re¬ fuse to consider printing the story, but you will not even attempt to check up on the facts.”

Copley looked sober and defiant. Enrique eyed him strangely and leaned farther back in his chair. A glance about assured him that the club was well-nigh deserted; no one could possibly overhear them.

“You, of course, know of Mrs. Zan¬ der, and the strange rumors about her in the past ten years or so.”

“I only know that in some manner she is said to have rejuvenated her¬ self,” said Copley, shortly.

“You also know,” drawled En¬ rique, flicking a speck of ash from his coat, “that Mrs. Zander is tremend¬ ously wealthy.”

“Of course/’ agreed Copley a little sharply.



“Perhaps you have also noticed that since that day when she returned to New York some years ago, appar¬ ently restored to youth’s estate in some strange, unknown manner, she has never been seen in public without the peculiarly shaped neckpiece that she wears. It is a most extraordinary neckpiece, made for her by a Parisian lapidary. It is about an inch wide, and is formed of real gold cloth for a basis. There are diamonds and other precious stones and—”

‘ ‘ I have often seen the trinket, ” ad¬ mitted Copley.

“Remember it well,” said Enrique very seriously, “for without it you lose the key to my tale; and, inci¬ dentally, it would afford you the first means of checking up on my narra-

“A/Trs. zander, when she was a

-L vl young woman, waB, as you probably know, considered the most famous beauty in New York. Her dis¬ position, however, was considered— well, not so good.

“If I remember rightly, it was along about the time that she was forty-five or so that young Lieutenant Zander took her eye. It was a merry enough romance at first. The young lieutenant, in search of money, and the rather middle-aged lady in search of—of young lieutenants.

“It is seldom, indeed, that Mrs. Zander docs any foolish, ill-advised thing, and I was not the only one who thought it quite strange when she took into her service a beautiful young French girl, as a personal maid, about the time of her engage¬ ment to the lieutenant.

“Few, aside from myself, know the story of how the young army man fell suddenly and desperately in love with the maid, once he had seen her, and broke off his engagement with his older love—well, he did exactly that. In fact, he did more than that: he

planned to elope with the lovely young French girl. And who could blame him? She had a faultless, lithe figure, one of those narrow-hipped, rhythmical figures that are so often called‘boyish’. Properly dressed, she would have caused a furor in any sa¬ lon in New York at that time. Poor Mrs. Zander’s figure could, of course, in all honesty have been termed noth¬ ing but a ‘stylish stout.’

“■When Lieutenant Zander broke off his engagement with her, Mrs. Zander went into a perfect frenzy of hysterics, and called in the doctor who told me this story. She begged him to restore to her the charms that had once been hers; raved for hours against the heavy mantle of years which she must carry, and swore by everything in which she had faith that she would grow no older, and that youth should be hers again. She told the doctor that she stood ready and willing to risk her life in the at¬ tempt to be young again, and that she would far rather die trying to become youthful than live and see the years creep upon her. When my friend had assured her that he could do nothing, she cursed him as roundly as a Lon¬ don fishwoman would curse a cab¬ by who had nearly run her down— and in much the same language.

“She ended up her tirade by de¬ manding that, he introduce her to young Fischbeck, the surgeon, who, you remember, some years ago, was struck from the register for perform¬ ing outre operations of one sort or an-

“My friend quite properly refused to do this, but, in some way, she man¬ aged to get hold of Fischbeck, and shortly thereafter the three (Mrs. Zander, Fischbeck, and the lovely young maid) suddenly disappeared. No one knows where they went, ex¬ cept that it was somewhere in Europe.

“For several years nothing was heard of the trio. Lieutenant Zander

THE BAND OP GOLD


went to Europe and searched high and low, but returned without trace of them. They were known to have arrived in London; but, beyond that city, if indeed they left it, no trace was to be had. Even Mrs. Zander’s own attorneys were ignorant of her whereabouts.”

“I remember all that,” broke in Copley impatiently. “Fischbeck turned up at Monte Carlo some years later, lost a fortune at the tables, and committed suicide.”

“Exactly,” agreed Enrique.

A servant stole into the now nearly darkened room, and, looking questioningly at Enrique, reached toward the electric switch to turn on the lights. Enrique shook his head, and the servant departed, leaving the room in darkness except for the reflected glow of the electric signs across the way.

“I saw Mrs. Zander shortly after her return to New York,” Enrique went on after a minute. “She was Stunning. She seemed, somehow, to be taller; and her figure! Strong, well molded young limbs, and narrow, boyish hips; she looked like a girl of twenty. Even her face, while it did not seem to have quite shared the com¬ plete transformation that her figure had undergone, was younger. She seemed to have unlimited, vibrant health and zest. She was, to all in¬ tents and purposes, a woman of twen¬ ty again. Perhaps, my friend, you

can finish the story for yourself

Copley looked puzzled. “The only thing I can add,” he said, “is what everyone knows: that Lieutenant Zan¬ der tried to kill her in her apartments one night, and then, a few days later, strangely enough, married her— though many people seemed to think that he hated her at the time he mar¬ ried her, and has hated her every mo¬ ment since, but for some strange rea¬ son continues to live with her.”

‘ ‘ Exactly, ’ ’ admitted Enrique, put¬ ting the slim tips of his fingers to¬ gether and looking across at Copley out of narrow eyes.

“Well?” said Copley after a minEnrique looked a trifle impatient now. Only when an especially large sign across the street flashed on could the two men see each other’s faces.

“My dear Copley,” drawled En¬ rique, “need I add that the maid was never heard from again to this day ? ’ ’

“My God!” said Copley, under his breath, after a time. “You mean—?”

He stopped, overcome.

“Exactly!” smiled Enrique. “Now, my friend, will you print that story in your estimable paper, or even in¬ vestigate it?”

“No! Heaven forbid!” said Cop¬ ley, tensely.

Presently the servant appeared

“Turn on the lights!” snapped Copley, addressing the servant irrita¬ bly.

W E ABE going to turn The Eyrie this month over to our readers. There is room for only a small percentage of the letters that pour in to the editor’s desk, but even so, these reflect the spirit of the others, and you, the readers, will be interested in knowing wha-t other readers think about us.

“At last I have found a magazine to my liking,” writes J. It Pountney, of Cleveland, Ohio. “I picked up one of your magazines the other evening, and didn’t go to bed till I had finished every hit of it.”

Another reader whom Weird Tat.es has deprived of sleep is Hubert Blankenship, of Portsmouth, Ohio, who writes: “Sometimes I sit up all night and read the weird stories in your magazine. I look forward to getting the magazine as soon as it gets in at the corner book store.”

Catharine Hartley Griggs, of Waterbury, Connecticut, writes: “I like Weird Tales because it is the only magazine that fills the natural human craving for stories of the strange and mysterious.”

And Prank G. Malone, of Cleveland, Ohio, writes: “Never have I read such fascinating stories. I read, or have read, almost every fiction magazine published, and can truthfully say that I have yet to find the magazine with stories equal to the ones in Weird Tales. I have recommended 1 your magazine, and find those I have recommended it to are waiting as anxiously as I am for the next issue.”

This is very gratifying, but sh! not too loud, or we may get some hard knocks. But no; the next letter is even more enthusiastic. It is from Anne Forman Ellis, of Norfolk, Virginia, who writes: “Doubtless many of your readers have perused their recent copies of Weird Tales under more difficult conditions or in stranger surroundings or at points farther away than I, but I think that for anyone not a professional traveler I may claim the palm for long-distance commuting in my reading, for I read part of the May-June-July quarterly while on my way from Norfolk to California in July, the rest of it on ray return trip a week later, the November number while on my way out again in October, the December number as I returned this month—a total of some 14,500 miles to the three copies. To me the apotheosis of comfort and content is the Pullman berth with its drawn curtains shutting out the world, the lulling rock of the fast train, a box of carefully selected chocolates AND a copy of the newest Weird Tales with its delightful shudders.”

Leo A. Borah, who wrote ‘ ‘ The House of Dust, ’ ’ comes under suspicion of causing a cat-fit by the vividness of his narrative. Mrs. Lilia May Savino, of Portsmouth, Virginia, writes: “I read the first installment of ‘The House of Dust’ to my son and daughter, aged respectively sixteen and thirteen, and



stand and bought a copy. After I had finished reading it, I closed the boot and sat for—I don’t know how long—until my sister came and woke me from my revery. That magazine absolutely intrigued me—especially the story, ‘ The Rajah’s Gift That story did not quite reach the point of being weird, but, nevertheless, it reached the Everest of perfection in its own way.”

Lester Thomas, of Topeka, Kansas, writes: “Keep the Weird Tales in accord with what the name suggests. Please give us some more stories of the type in which science and horror are combined, such as ‘The Brain in the Jar.’ I think they are the most interesting. Give us some more stories of the outer spaces of this universe.”

Another letter opposing any change in the style of stories comes from Leslie A. Wilson, of Toronto, Canada, who writes: “I believe that the maga¬ zine as it stands is A-l splendid, and to change the stories would spoil the magazine. As it is, the magazine lives up to its name. I have always enjoyed the stories in Weird Tales, as they are unique, and it is a pleasure to read something out of the ordinary.”

“W. T. carries some brilliant short stories,” writes Sidney E. Johnson, from Joplin, Missouri. ‘ ‘ I don’t believe that sort would ever pall. I vote for ‘Arhl-a of the Caves’ as the best story in the January issue. And let me say that if Mr. Eddy will attempt, to show up in fiction the origin of man’s belief in the supernatural—how it began with his fear of ‘Night and the Noseless One ’—he will indeed have a wonderful theme to work on. ’ ’

William A. P. White, of San Rafael, California, writes: “I heartily ap¬ prove of the results of the poll for the November number, but, personally, I believe in the motto, ‘the gruesomer, the better.’ I think Prank Belxnap Long is a great find. Please get another story from Ramon de las Cuevas, and also from Otis Adelbert Kline. All in all, your magazine suits me ‘ right down to the ground’.”

H. Warner Munn, of Athol, Massachusetts, writes: “I am indeed de¬ lighted that Lovecraft is to be a steady contributor. Weird Tales discovered him, I believe; and if it had never done anything else, that would be sufficient reason for its continued existence. You are doing a great work in publishing stories that the great ultraconservative magazines might refuse. ’ ’

We like such comment, for it makes us feel that we are on the right track. And we study—oh, so carefully!—the few letters that find fault with the magazine. There are not many' of these, and we might throw these into the wastebasket on the theory that one can’t please everybody; but instead of that, we examine every criticism, even the slightest, that is made of Weird Tales. For this magazine is yours, and we want to consult you, the readers, in every¬ thing. It is because you liked “The Brain in the Jar” so well that we are offering you “The Composite Brain” in this issue.

And now as to the poll of stories in the January issue. “Out of the Long Ago,” Seabury Quinn’s werewolf story, is fighting it out for first honors with “The Ocean Leech,” by Prank Belknap Long, Jr., as this issue goes to press. It is impossible to say which of the two will be the readers’ final choice, as they are running a neck-and-neck race. Within hailing distance of the two leaders come “Invaders Prom Outside,” by J. Schlossel; “Luisma’s Return,” by Arthur J. Burks; and “The Festival,” by H. P. Lovecraft.

What is your favorite story in this issue? Send in the name of your choice to The Eyrie, Weird Tales, 317 Baldwin Building, Indianapolis, Indiana.

The Last of the Teeheemen

(Continued from page 20) in the forest with the other men of the expedition.”

“How wonderful!” she exclaimed. “You can never realize the life I have lived in this savage country since I was first captured by the horrible men with claws instead of fingers and toes! My dear father, how he has suffered, too! And to think that he never ceased to search for me, and now he is about to succeed after all this time!”

The bluff was finally scaled by the members of the party, Holton aiding Rosalie Sharon in making the diffi¬ cult ascent up the face of the bluff. When the top had been reached, Duros sounded a warning. More than a hundred of the dog-faced warriors were coming at full speed across the fields at the top of the line of bluffs in rapid pursuit of the Duros follow-

“We will fight them back at the edge of the forest,” Duros called, “while you take the woman of the white gods to the platform. From there, retreat to the city of Teehee¬ men. All of my people have reached there by now. Organize them and tell them to make weapons and prepare for a battle, for these men of Ugu, when they learn fully what has hap¬ pened, will attempt to retake the

Holton followed the command of Duros, and fled with Rosalie to the border of the jungle. He cast one glance backward at the fight taking place in the fields, and saw that Duros and his men were taking a fearful toll of the dog-faced creatures.

“Duros will win and reach the city of Teeheemen in safety!” Holton ex¬ claimed as he assisted the girl through the jungle undergrowth. “We shall reach the camping place, where the others are awaiting my return, in a couple of hours. Once we are in the city of Teeheemen, we shall be safe,


"WEIRD TALES

for there will be nothing to block our progress through the hollow mountain to the outer world and then back

npHE progress of the two through A the undergrowth was slow. The attire of the girl was so scanty that she was a constant victim to the sharp-pointed leaves that adorned some of the underbrush. Holton pre¬ ceded her and broke the way to make travel for her as easy as possible.

They had traveled for about an hour when Holton paused for a mo¬ ment to allow her to rest.

“We are not more than half an hour’s distance from the camp,” he said encouragingly, and glanced at her brown hair and shapely shoulders.

“Do you think we have made our escape certain!” she asked, raising her eyes to his.

Holton returned her look and noted her anxious manner.

‘ 1 1 think that we are as safe as we could expect to be in such a country. There is little prospeet of the dog¬ faced men finding us at once. We shall be at camp in a short time and it is but a three-hour march in a straight line to the deserted city of Teehee-

“I shall rest easier when we are there,” she replied, smiling. “My rescue seems like a dream. I am fearful that I am not really awake and that I may come to myself and find it is only a dream.”

“Well,” he laughed, “you have my assurance that it is not a dream, but

As Holton spoke the last word, a tremendous bellow reverberated through the jungle. Again it was re¬ peated, and yet again.

“What is that!” she questioned, anxiously.

“The great beast teeheemen!” he

responded, examining the magazine of his rifle and hurriedly Inserting a number of fresh cartridges.

“What is a teeheemen!” she asked, placing her hand on his arm.

‘‘One of the greatest animals that treads the earth today,” he explained. “The one that just sounded its chal¬ lenge is the last of its kind in the

“Let us flee from here!” she

“It is best to remain quiet for a time,” he advised. “To continue our way at present might result in our running into the creature or making such a disturbance in the underbrush that its attention will be attracted and lead to an attack upon us.”

“Is the beast you speak of a flesh¬ eating creature!”

“It is,” he replied.

The loud, roaring bellow again sounded through the jungle, and this time the challenge of the beast was much closer to the man and woman who crouched in the brush near the base of a gigantic tree.

“It’s coming toward us,” Holton warned, peering in the direction from which the last challenge had issued. “If it finds us, it will charge. Set behind the tree, for it is a cumber¬ some creature and when enraged rushes about blindly.”

A crashing of the brush a short distance away revealed to the man and woman the place where the beast might be expected to emerge. A mo¬ ment later its towering form with the extended neck and enormous, snake¬ shaped head, came into view.

T he creature evidently had located the man and woman through its sense of smell. It recognized them as desirable prey, and had crowded its way through the jungle until it stood


again, leapt around the base of the tree away from the monster.

The teeheemen, however, showed some signs of intelligence, for it profited by its former collision with the tree and halted suddenly in its wild rush.

With wild bellowings, it began cir¬ cling the base of the great tree in pursuit of the man and woman.

Holton changed his aim and fired at one of the enormous eyes. His aim was true, and the shot blinded the beast on that side. Blood was stream¬ ing in torrents from a dozen wounds in its body as it charged wildly about the thicket in the vicinity of the tree. It wheeled about and came toward the tree again. Holton got a shot at the remaining eye. After a continu¬ ation of its blind chargings, the tee¬ heemen, showing signs of weakening from its wounds, turned and crashed blindly through the undergrowth in the direction of the camp toward which Holton and Rosalie had been marching.

When it had disappeared, the two resumed their march for the camp of the party, following the trail which the great beast had left through the brush, as traveling it was mueh easier than making a path through the un¬ dergrowth for themselves. The trail was marked by the life blood of the badly wounded monster.

“If we again encounter the beast,” explained Holton, “we shall have no trouble in eluding it, for both of its eyes have been shot away.”

Rosalie Sharon tripped, and but for Holton’s quick action in supporting her would have fallen. When she re¬ gained her footing she held to his arm, and the two walked slowly through the dense jungle toward the camp where the others were becoming anxious over the delayed arrival of Holton.


B enton was the first to awaken after a restless night spent on the platform in the tree. Leaving the oth¬ er members of the party resting on the platform, he descended to the foot of the grapevine ladder.

He walked about in the vicinity for a time, and when he returned to the base of the camp tree he found that Otter had followed him to the ground.

“I’ve been worrying about Hol¬ ton,” he remarked as he approached Benton. “He has been bucking a bunch of birds with whom he is not acquainted. ’ ’

“True,” Benton admitted. “I have been thinking about his scouting alone with Duros, though I could readily understand that it was better for two to go than our entire party. We should have been more easily detected than the two will be.”

A movement in the underbrush a short distance from the tree aroused the attention of the two. The move¬ ment continued, and both dropped to the earth to avoid detection.

Their movement was not quick enough, for their action had been ob-

"It’s an army marching through the jungle,” Benton whispered. “They may pass without detecting our location.”

He was mistaken, for the head of the column suddenly swung straight toward the tree.

CRter and Benton thrust their rifles forward, determined to sell their lives as dearly as possible. The first of the marchers came into view through the tall brush.

An exclamation of delight escaped Benton as he lowered his rifle and leapt to his feet.

“They are the men of Teeheemen!”

The two advanced to meet the olivecolored men.

One of the leaders of the vanguard


WEIRD

spot its calls continued to weaken. A short distance from the place the men saw it pause and totter. A few agon¬ ized roars issued from it, and the for¬ est remained quiet.

“What ails the devil!” Otter quer¬ ied.

“You and I will investigate,” Ben¬ ton suggested, “and let Sharon and the guides return to the platform where they can remain in safety in the event of the beast’s again charg¬ ing us. We’ll see if we can bag the creature for Holton’s geographic so¬ ciety, or the Smithsonian Institute.”

S habon and the three guides ascend¬ ed the grapevine ladder, while Ot¬ ter and Benton moved through the brush toward the spot where they had observed the towering hulk of the teeheemen sink from sight.

They approached with caution un¬ til they could distinguish the great animal’s body. At a signal from Ben¬ ton, the two discharged their rifles together. They had expected to see the great creature rise to its feet, wild with rage. Instead, there was silence, following the reports of their wea¬ pons.

“What’s got into the old boy!” Otter asked as the two advanced to¬ ward the prostrate mountain of flesh.

“The teeheemen is dead!” Benton exclaimed. “The last of his kind is

“And it’s bullets that have done it!” Otter remarked, excitedly. “This old dummy must have hooked up with Holton some place and got away. Holton wonnded him so badly that he came this far from the scene where he was shot, and died.”

“Or else,” Benton said, “the crea¬ ture may have slain Holton and Duros, and sustained its mortal wounds while so doing.”

“I think we ought to try and find

TALES

the two, then get out of this mess of a country,” said Otter.

“We’ll do that very thing,” Ben¬ ton agreed. “We’ll take a few photo¬ graphs of this beast with one of the cameras, and then leave our camp and attempt to find Holton. If we take the back trail of the teeheemen, we shall find the place where they encoun¬ tered the creature, and there we shall either find their crushed bodies or their bones if they were devoured by the teeheemen.”

The men returned to the camp tree and announced that the teeheemen was dead. The guides brought the packs from the platform in the tree, and the entire party advanced to the place where the dead teeheemen lay.

Benton took a dozen pictures of the creature at various angles. When he had completed the work, the partyfollowed the back trail of the beast through the jungle.

They arrived at the spot where Holton had mortally wounded the great animal. They noted the broken shrubbery in the vicinity of the tree behind which Holton and Rosalie Sharon had eluded the violent charges of the teeheemen.

“They escaped,” Benton an¬ nounced, picking up a number of the empty shells from the ground, where Holton had ejected them from his rifle while firing at the charging ani¬ mal.

“Then they must be some place in the jungle, where they have lost their bearings,” said Otter.

“Duros knows this valley from be¬ ginning to end,” reminded Benton. “If he is still with Holton they will be at the camp unless some other evil has befallen them.”

“We had better return to the camp, then,” Otter suggested, and the party retraced its steps.

[TO BE CONCLUDED]

■WEIRD TAXES


The Composite Brain

(Continued from page 28)

A moment’s silence, then he said: “The brain registers the impression 'very hungry’.”

The professor spoke the last words with peculiar emphasis. James shot a sidelong glance at his uncle, and started when he saw the wild light of sheer insanity gleaming in his eyes. . . . The unele made a move toward him, and James took a step backward. . . . The old scientist stopped and made a horrible grimace, which was intended for a smile but failed of its purpose. He resumed his subject:

“You see what a powerful engine of destruction I have here. With it” (the light of insanity glowed from his cadaverous eyes once more) “I can do anything I will. I am all-power¬ ful, I can kill whom I wish, I can depopulate the earth!”

He shrieked out the last words in a frenzy. Then his manner changed suddenly.

“Come,” he said, beckoning with a clawlike finger, “come here. My se¬ cret is not safe with you. You be¬ long down there.”

He pointed down into the pit. Sud¬ denly he leapt forward and grasped James by the arm. James looked at him dumbly a moment before he fully realized the significance of the moveWith a scream he tried to break away, but his uncle held him with the rigid grip of a madman, and drew him closer to the pit. Again he screamed and struggled nearly out of the professor’s hold. Leroy leapt for¬ ward suddenly; there was a short scuffle at the brink, and with another



horrible scream James pitched for¬ ward into the pit.

The two men stepped back. Leroytouched the button that operated the door; the heavy slab slid in place; and the insane scientists smiled at each other as the muffled screams below ceased abruptly.

“Bulldog instincts working,” re¬ marked the elder, calmly.

“Professor,” said Leroy after they

A had once more seated themselves in the laboratory, “don’t you think that the addition of a portion of a good human brain to our beast’s headpiece would render him more effi¬ cient?”

“Yes, I had thought of that, but where can we obtain a live man to get a brain from? The man from whom we obtained the arms was only knocked unconscious, luckily, but oc¬ casions like that are rare and that young fool, James, is in shreds by now. What a pity we didn’t think of it then!”

“Well, I don’t think that fellow was much of an intellectual giant, anyhow; we want the most highly de¬ veloped brain we can get.”

Professor Hurley was silent a mo¬ ment. Then:

“I know the very brain wc want,” he said, “and it happens that I have a personal score to settle with this man. You know Dr. Forrester of the university? He was the cause of my removal from the chair of surgery some years ago, and I swore ven¬ geance. It would be my moment of triumph to have him in my power and let him know that I intend to use his brain in an experiment of mine.”

“But how shall we lure him here?’’

“I have a plan in which we can utilize our tentaded little friend down there in the pit to good advantage.”

“Let’s hear it.”

W ithin an hour the two madmen had formulated their plans.

The far-off university tower clock faintly tolled the hour of midnight, as in the basement of the laboratory the professor and Leroy finished feed¬ ing their hideous ward a generous amount of a nourishing, gruel-like mixture. This done, the professor mentally directed it up the steps and out on the driveway, where their ma¬ chine waited.

The springs creaked as the mis¬ shapen monster clambered in and lay on the floor in the rear of the car. A blanket was flung over it; the two men got in; and the automobile plunged off into the night.

Fifteen minutes later it coasted to a silent halt in front of Dr. Forres¬ ter’s elm-shaded residence. The pro¬ fessor pointed to an open window near the comer of the house, on the second floor.

“That is where our man sleeps. Now watch our little friend get him.”

So saying, he seated himself on the running board and began the task of mentally piloting the creature.

Under his direction it lumbered across the lawn, reached the house and began the long climb up the water spout and vines Once it sprang into sharp silhouette in a splash of moon¬ light, only to blend back into the shad¬ ows again when the moonlight dimmed, as if to blot out a sight that was unpleasant in the eyes of God.

At last it swung itself to the win¬ dow-ledge of the doctor’s room, and Professor Hurley breathed a sigh of relief as the creature disappeared in-

“ Bulldog instincts will do the rest, though I had better direct it to bite and not to kill, or our brain will not be alive when we get it,” he said with a low chuckle.

Dr. Forrester awoke from uneasy

THE COMPOSITE BRAIN


dreams at the gentle shaking of his bed. He rolled over and opened his eyes, then sat bolt upright as his startled eyes fell upon the hideous thing that was slowly creeping over the foot of his bed.

Absolutely paralyzed by terror, un¬ able to make a sound, he sat rigid until a slimy tentacle brushed against his naked forearm. Then he bounded out of bed, still soundless, seized a chair and struck a savage blow at the horror now lying on his bed. The blow rebounded as if he had struck a resilient piece of rubber. Under a shower of blows the beast slid off on to the floor and backed the doctor into a corner, where the still soundless man fought frantically against the foul¬ smelling, clammy embrace until the paralyzing effect of the poison brought merciful unconsciousness.

S carcely had Professor Hurley withdrawn the needle of the hypo¬ dermic syringe that administered the antidote, than the mists of oblivion began to lift from the young doctor’s

He found himself bound to a post in an underground laboratory, where Leroy and the professor were busily engaged in preparing an operating table. As his eyes swept the room, they fell upon the shapeless mass of the thing. A shudder of horror shook his body as he gazed upon the handi¬ work of his captors. His observations were interrupted by the voice of the professor, taunting him.

His old enemy came and stood be¬ fore him, laughed at him, tantalized him, tortured him, showered him with curses as he stormed and raged be¬ fore his captive. He dwelt on his fancied wrongs, told him how and why he had brought him there, and screamed his vengeance until he fell

The Farmerette

been jjbte to^picture^ forego

iv°i:

Stop Using a Truss

l

Bushels of Great Stories

'£?

^0®' About 400 lance enthrall-

■ W ° * wQ

*if DoV^doUrhtld



back into his chair exhausted, a sug¬ gestion of foam about the comers of his mouth.

During the long silence that en¬ sued, Dr. Forrester looked again at the black-furred huddle in the comer. Something in its absolutely inert ap¬ pearance fascinated him. He wished that it would make a movement of some kind, rather than sprawl so limply on the floor.

He looked again at the elaborate preparations being made so that his brain might he alive to be pnt into that frightful thing. The fast-crum¬ bling throne of sanity in his head tot¬ tered and nearly fell. Oh! if that beast would only move. If that single tentacle would only move an inch, what a relief it would be! He fairly shrieked it mentally.

To his surprize it did move. A mo¬ ment later he wished it would open its month. It did. Then the sway¬ ing throne of reason in his brain be¬ came steady, and for the next thirty seconds his brain spun in one of those lightninglike thought processes that sometimes come to men in the face of death.

His eyes glowing, he mentally com¬ manded the thing to flex the arms that hung limply at its sides. They flexed, then, at his order, unflexed. He looked at the operating table. . . . The professor was pouring ether on an an¬ esthetizing cone. ... He looked back at the thing. ... It was a desperate chance, but he must take it.

Slowly, and with beads of perspira¬ tion standing on his forehead, he urged the creature noiselessly across the floor toward the professor.

As it crouched behind the old man, the captive closed his eyes and di¬ rected all his faculties on the mental command of “kill”.

There was an instant of scuffling, a piercing shriek, and the doctor opened Ms eyes to see his enemy borne to the floor by the weight of his atSomewhero in that bit of grafted bulldog brain had lain dormant the little group of cells that snap when the dog goes mad and attacks Ms master. This instinct took full pos¬ session of the huge body and the re¬ sults were horrible to see.

The doctor closed his eyes again. When the sounds of the struggle ceased he reopened them and saw the thing sprawling motionless over what had been Professor Hurley.

He glanced at Leroy, who had stood motionless during the grim tragedy.

“Cut these ropes quickly, or I'll send that creature at you!” he oomLike one in a tranoe, and keeping Ms eyes steadfastly fixed upon the tMng, the student obeyed.

Freed, Dr. Forrester strode across the room, where he halted abruptly at the sight of a wicked automatic lying on the desk. Slowly he picked it up. He shot a sidelong glance at Leroy, still staring dumbly at the repulsive sight before him. He deliberated a moment; would it not be best to erase all evidences of such a travesty of na¬ ture? Suddenly he stepped forward and emptied the contents of the gun pointblank into Leroy’s body. With¬ out a sound the youth crumpled to the floor, his fast-glazing eyes still fixed upon the thing.

A short search in an adjoining room brought to light a large can of kerosene. Dr. Forrester dashed it over the furniture and shelves, sat¬ urated the elothing of the corpses with it, ignited it in several places, locked the door to the underground laboratory, where the thing still lay, and fled from the house.

Many blocks away, on the univer¬ sity hill that overlooked the town, he glanced back and smiled grimly at the ruddy glow in the distance that marked the funeral pyre of so awful a secret. The old building was blaz¬ ing fiercely.

WEIRD TADES

Adventures of An Astral

(Continued from page 42)

’SfrHfS

•1£|^

NEWS-REPORTING

SHORT-STORY WRITING 1

PHOTOPLAY WRITING

S STAGE-PLAY WRITING

Ao -

fJBSSSKSK n s ^. E J


mmm

^jjjll

^ZIXZIZZ

mum

LONELY 1



grieve so much,” he said soothingly. “I can’t bear seeing you do that. After all, you are very young and beautiful, you know, and must not bury all your hopes for life in your husband’s grave.”

Lucetta began to cry afresh.

“I know, Mr. Johnston,” she sobbed, “but I’m afraid I was unkind to him. If I’d let him do what he wanted to, he wouldn’t have gone to Monte Carlo. And now he’s dead— and it’s my fault!”

Young Johnston took her hands gently in his. How I should have liked to kick the presumptuous cub!

“Why, Mrs. Thompson! I know you could never be unkind!” he re¬ plied incredulously.

Lucetta’s sobs increased.

“No, but indeed I am, Mr. John¬ ston,” she affirmed. “He wanted to astralize himself—and—and I would

A gleam of understanding came into Johnston’s eyes. I instinctively knew he had guessed what had hap-

“But, Mrs. Thompson, it’s very wrong to astralize one’s self. You were not to blame. You were only doing your duty by preventing such an act.”

He talked on in that strain for sev¬ eral minutes. He was a glib orator, and presently Lucetta wiped away her tears on a dainty kerchief, and even smiled a little. She took Johnston’s arm, and the two moved off down the deck, gaily chatting. I was simply furious, but helpless to interfere.

Deserting the ship, I minutely searched the surface in a desperate hope of finding my body. Not seeing it, I plunged to the bottom and began examining the sunken Grenadier.

Locked in a vaultlike safe I found the coffin. The body was well em¬ balmed, but entirely useless. Even an astral cannot open a safe combina¬ tion. The body was imprisoned there.

Sitting gloomily down on the coffin, I buried my astral face on astral hands, and gave way to despair.

Hearing a burst of astral laughter at my elbow, I looked up.

I saw young Johnston’s astral, grinning from ear to ear.

“Ha! Ha! Ha!” he laughed sneeringly. “Well, you are in a pretty mess! Ha! Ha! Ha!”

I was too overcome to move.

“Yes,” he repeated, “you are in a mess and no mistake. Your body down half a mile under water, locked in a burglar-proof safe, and no way of getting it out. Well, my friend, I guess I’ll have to look after Lucetta for you. It’s evident you’re not in condition to do so any longer.”

And then the hound laughed again.

I ought to have pulverized him, but I had not yet recovered from the shock of his sudden appearance.

He was a silent a moment, then con-

“ Lucetta will suit me very well. She has oodles of greenbacks, I’m told, and besides, is very pretty.”

He paused again, waiting for an answer. Then he went on:

“She’s promised to accompany my party on a European tour. You know the old saying about propinquity?”

Then I sprang up and assaulted him. Evading my blows, he fled with a mocking laugh. I pursued, but he reached his stateroom and entered his body before I could seize him.

Reinstated in earthly form, he defi¬ antly shook his fist at the air.

"Not this time, my friend!” he ex¬ claimed. “You weren’t quite quick enough.”

With a last derisive laugh, he quit¬ ted the stateroom and went on deck. I followed, but did not remain long. I could not bear to watch the young cad as he skilfully wormed his way into my wife’s favor.

Abandoning the ship, I hurried away to the other side of the globe,

ADVENTURES OF AN ASTRAL


aSSS* ‘ “ 1 “

gipisis

“Why! Where have you been all iwasso “

5Sfi^l5bS3

to my own wife!

J£l^SSS»aSES




itself, and worse than death. It was a cinder that had gone through super¬ heated flame. It was a volcanic rock, seamed and scarred. It was an old corpse that had been slashed into rib¬ bons. That was it: a criss-cross of scars, a thing blighted with old cuts and healed lacerations. The eyes were stark and mute.

I gazed over at Old Tom’s lined face, and read dread there. Then I knew. It was Scarred Rondell who was our host: Rondell, the recluse, whose cabin not the stoutest trapper or woodsman would approach. He was known as a strange man, and wild tales were told of his cabin here in the wilderness, and of a phantom beast that howled when the moon was

“Cornin’ ’round, boy?” asked Tom, and his voice was thin and trembly. “Ye looked like death when we got hyar. Our lives is both owin’ to Mr. —Mr. Rondell.”

The old man with the horrible face looked over at me, and shifted his pipe

“ ’Twas nothing,” he said in a voice that was low and solemn. “I heard you calling, and merely opened the door.”

He gazed into the hot fire, and, as he gazed, his face assumed a gray, ashen look.

“ ’Tis a terrible night out!”

He lapsed into silence, and Tom and I sat tensed at the sound of his voice, hollow with fear and horror. Suddenly he lifted his hand.

‘' Hark! ” he said. ‘ ‘ What was that whimpering?”

His eyes turned on me, and they were very old and tired. In them sat the terror of years.

“No,” he resumed, “it is the wind; the wind howling just as it did that night twenty years ago—a night just like this!”

There was a longer silence now, during which Tom and I sat stiff and alert. There was look of misgiv¬ ing in my friend’s eyes turned on me, and I looked back with the same ex¬ pression. As for Scarred Rondell, he still gazed at the fire, and he seemed to be trembling a little. Then ab¬ ruptly he started speaking.

“Tt was a night like this, twenty years ago, that I ceased to live, my friends.”

His eyes were bent on me, and his scars were chalk-white.

“I will tell you of that night, and where this hell-mask of a face came

He laughed madly.

“Oh, there are wild stories out! There are wild, strange stories told! No man would come to my shelter, ex¬ cept when driven by a storm like this! You two both fear me! You are both trembling! But, my friends, I am just a man like you, or I was, until that blizzard came. It has been twenty years since I have harbored a guest, and I am mad to unburden my soul! You are my first audience, and perhaps my last!

“Two decades ago,” said the old man, “I came into this bitter North Country. I came seeking gold; I stayed to trap. It was an unknown land then, and there were no trails for forty miles around. I brought only a horse, and my dog, Devil. He was a Great Dane, and came nearly to my waist, and he was as strong as a bear. I remember the time he dragged me out of the Stakon River at flood.

“Have you ever seen that river? The Indians call it Devil Water. It swirls through a lean canyon, and thunders for a hundred miles over great boulders, and—yes, at flood it tears some of the bigger stones up bodily, and carries them for miles. I

TALES




back. Everything, apparently, was the same. The door was barred, the fire was crackling away, and outside the storm was keeping up its steady pace. But there was something stark and awful in that room, something wrong, dead wrong! I could feel it like a touch on the shoulder. I hadn’t moved. I had just opened my eyes. I looked around, after a moment, into each semi-dark comer, at the black windowpane, and at the door. But I could see nothing out of place. Still dread was there, intrudent, outstand-

“I glanced at the dog to see if he had noticed, too. The eye nearest me was open, and he seemed to be listen¬ ing. But there was no untoward sound, no movement anywhere. I dis¬ missed the apprehension as the prod¬ uct of a spooky night. I leaned my head back again, and puffed at my pipe. But all the time that feeling was present, that intuition of some¬ thing terrible near. It was the feel¬ ing of something watching, something looking fixedly at me. It was like ice up my back.

"I shifted my pipe, and as I made the move I fancied hearing a low sound like a whimper. It made my hair stand up. I looked around the room again, fearfully, carefully. There was nothing, apparently, near me. But steadily the feeling grew, until I was thoroughly alarmed, thor¬ oughly frightened. I looked down at Devil again. He seemed to be sleep¬ ing. I was about to call to him, to pat him, when suddenly his eye flew open. It was looking straight at me, and it seemed to hold a queer light in it. Something about its look sent a chill through me for a minute. Its gaze was so steady and strange, un¬ like a dog’s, I thought. But I dis¬ missed the fancy with a shrug. The solitude was getting me. Still I did not speak to the dog, nor stroke him.

Something made me stop, some feel-

“I puffed at my pipe, and turned my mind toward other things, but that intuition of danger persisted. My sleepy contentment was complete¬ ly gone, and I was on the alert, deadlily on the alert. I kept my eyes con¬ stantly upon the door, and upon the window with its black, white-flecked pane. But the danger did not seem to come from that quarter. It seemed nearer, very near me, near the fire¬ place. It seemed almost as if some stark gnome of fear were standing by me. As the fear grew, and I became aware that it was no fancy, but a wild reality, I began to tremble in spite of myself. I tried to shake off the feel¬ ing, for what earthly things could have come through a night that raged like that one? What living form could ever have survived such a bliz¬ zard? But it was there, a something, living or not! It was there, hideous and unseen! It was by my chair like a grinning Horla.

“There came a slight movement, so slight I could not tell where, and again I detected what seemed to be an eery whimper. My blood was like ice. I wanted to scream, to leap up, to run. But I was frozen to the chair with an unearthly terror. I glanced down again at the dog, and its eye was staring at me, unblinking. I shudder even now as I remember the look in that eye. It was horrible, hell¬ ish. After a moment the eye closed.”

Ocarred sonde i. T. paused. His face ^ was gray as he relived the story.

“What was that?” he whispered. “What was that sound?”

There was a silence, and then he

“So I sat there, my mind a whirl. The eye reopened. It was wide and staring. It had the look of a fiend in it. I was trembling so that I could


The Better Choice

=«1



night long his tortured mind revolted at the horror, the gruesome reality of it all. At last, worn out with the strain of the ordeal, just as the first rays of the morning sun peeped over the hilltops—the sun whose light was never seen inside the prison’s cold, gray walls—he flung himself in sheer exhaustion upon his cot, and dropped off into fitful slumber.

The next few days were fraught with untold agony for John Castle. A hundred times a day he prayed that death might come and release him from his sufferings. But the law— cold, hard, unrelenting—took care that he should live until he had paid in full for the deed he had done, live to expiate his crime.

At last came the trial. The jury made short work of the case. John Castle was not at all surprized at their verdict. There was nothing else they could have decided: “ Guilty of mur¬ der in the first degree.”

He drew himself erect as the old judge pronounced sentence. At least no one could accuse him of not meet¬ ing the situation like a man.

hanged by the neck until he is dead.”

There was a calendar on the wall of his cell. John Castle ringed the date which the law had set for his execution. As each day dragged by he checked it off upon the calendar, and prayed that the time would pass more swiftly. The nearest he came to breaking down was on the eve of his death, when his wife came to bid him a final farewell.

The next morning, his last on earth, a young priest came and asked a bless¬ ing for his sin-steeped soul. Then at¬ tendants led him on his last walk, through the narrow corridor lined with cells, out into the morning, out to where the scaffolding reared ghast¬ ly and forbidding against the gray walls of the prison, the sun had not


risen nor would John Castle see it rise, for with its first beams his life would be snuffed out like a candle.

He walked boldly upright to his place on the platform of death. He marveled at his inward calm as they fitted the black hood over his head and shut out forever the world about him. He felt the weight of the hemp¬ en collar as they placed it about his neck; then—waited!

In that last long moment his mind reverted to his weird dream—or was it a dream? He had figured it all out in the loneliness of his cell. It was twenty years to a day! He won¬ dered if the ethereal stranger would be there to meet him and guide him to the seat of judgment. . . . He

would not have long to wait before he knew!

The flooring gave way beneath him. His body dropped ... a sudden, terrific jolt . . . then ob¬ livion !

T he blinding effulgence again be¬ came a whirling, chaotic jumble. Gradually it diminished, until it was but a tiny revolving point. Then it was gone altogether, leaving intense, impenetrable blackness.

“Come, John,” the voice was say¬ ing, “the time grows short. Already upon the earth the stars have waned and the sun is starting its daily jour¬ ney. You have seen what the future holds in store, should you choose to return to the life you have left be¬ hind. I repeat, there is no place here for the soul that is not content. The decision is yours.”

John Castle could not repress an involuntary shudder at the thought of what he had just witnessed. After all, perhaps man was not the best judge of his own destiny!

As he hesitated, the ethereal figure of his guide faded out before his eyes.

An invisible force gripped him, pro¬ pelled him at breath-taking speed to¬ ward the earth. He wondered what could exert such a tremendous power. The answer came in a flash. It was morning. They had found his body. White was manipulating the machine 1

It seemed hours, yet he knew it could have been but a mere minute before his astral body once more hovered above his inert physical one. His guess had been correct—White was at the machine. He could see his letter of instructions on the table be¬ side the empty jars that had con¬ tained the last of his life-giving mix¬ ture. His wife and children were there, too, their tear-stained faces watehing with prayerful intentness. His comprehensive survey glimpsed the family physician eying the pro¬ ceedings with a supercilious sneer. He felt the magnetic, irresistible power of his invention drawing his soul back into his body. How wonderful it would be! To die—and then to live

Once more came that vision of the scaffold. Once more came memories of long hours fraught with misery, spent behind prison bars. . . .

The watchers in the little room saw John Castle’s eyelids twitch feebly. A hand moved. They stared, spell¬ bound, as it described an arc toward his head.

White sprang forward with a sharp cry as the hand closed over the three rubber tubes that connected the man and the machine. Too late! One wrench, with a strength that seemed inconsistent with the wan figure on the bed, and the damage was done. John Castle had made his choice!

As he drifted once more into un¬ consciousness, he could faintly hear Montague White’s hoarse cry of hor-

“Good God! Mrs. Castle! He’s broken the machine!”


Seven Men in a Tank

By JOHN H. GREEN

“TTELLO, Sheriff—Warner of

r~l Arko Pipe Line Company,

-R- -R- speaking. Want you to come out to our tank farm at once. Pound seven bodies when we cleaned out one of our big storage tanks to¬ day. Bring the coroner with you.”

Pour years as sheriff in one of the toughest oil fields the country has ever seen will harden a man to almost anything. I hung up the receiver and turned to one of my deputies.

“Look after the office till I get back. Bob. Pound a bunch of stiffs in a tank at Smackover. Reckon I’ve got to go.”

I climbed into my old flivver and started out to hunt up Doc Smith. He had been called to the south part of the field, so, leaving word for him to follow, I drove out from the county seat and headed toward Smackover.

The Arko Tank farm was just on the edge of the field. Twenty big, black steel tanks squatted in accurate¬ ly spaced rows. Each held fifty-five thousand barrels of crude. They were used to store this oil until it could be pumped to the refineries at Shreve¬ port and New Orleans. Two corru¬ gated iron engine houses and a small field office completed the equipment.

Warner met me as I drove up. He was timekeeper for the Arko and was temporarily in charge until the superintendent returned from Shreveport.

“Come over to the west engine house,” he said, leading the way. “We had to move them. Seven men, and not a mark of violence on a one. No papers or means of identification, not even a pocket knife. It looks like robbery, but how in tarnation did they get in that tank in that shape? When?

Announcement

the

April Number of


The Unique Magazine Contains one of the most imagina¬ tive stories ever written.

When the Green Star Waned

By NICTZIN DYALHIS

When the Aethir-Torp from the planet Venhez came to the green world, Aerth, to find out why its radio had ceased broadcasting, an appalling situation was revealed. A gripping tale, told in an inimita¬ ble style, is this story. In all lit¬ erature there are few scenes as fas¬ cinating as the fight in interplane¬ tary space between the evil beings from the dark side of the Moon, and the forces from Mharz, Ven¬ hez, Jopitar and Satom, armed with Blastors and Ak-Blastors.

In the April Issue

On Sale March 1

Clip and Mail this coupon today t



What for? It’s got me beat. It’s un¬ canny, man, I tell you it is.”

VyE arrived at the engine house.

» ' There were seven forms laid out on the concrete floor, a large sheet of canvas covering them all.

“No,” I told Warner as he started to draw back the canvas. “Wait un¬ til the coroner comes. I don’t want to see them now.”

“Well, let’s look at the tank, then,” he replied, eying me curiously.

I agreed, and we walked out to the tank where the bodies were found. It did not differ from the others except that it was on the outside edge of the group. Still this huge mass of steel gave one the impression of a great, black reptile or prehistoric monster. Silent, impressive, but evil. I tried to shake off this moodiness as I fol¬ lowed the timekeeper up the light but serviceable steps leading to the top.

“She has been full of crude for the last ten months,” he informed me. “Just got it emptied yesterday.”

Down below were a crew of sweat¬ ing, swearing men at work scraping the bottom and sides of the paraffin residue and basic sediment. This lat¬ ter was a mixture of oil, salt water, sulfur and mud.

“We found them just before I ’phoned you—all seven in a kind of a heap under the manhole. How did they get here? When? No telling, for crude preserves just like alcohol.”

“Let’s go back and see if the coro¬ ner has come,” I suggested. The coroner arrived just as we reached the office—a nervous little man but a good doctor.

Dr. Smith made a hurried examina¬ tion, and then a more detailed one.

Two days later he was no nearer the solution than he had been at first.

“Not a scratch on them,” he sput¬ tered. “No dope or poison reaction. They must have gotten drunk and fallen in there. One thing, sheriff, it gets on my nerves: look at the fea¬

tures of each of those men. I never saw fear portrayed so strongly all my life. I don’t understand it.”

“Neither do I,” I told him. “I think it is hopeless. We have scoured the country—every oil camp, barrel house, rooming house, dance hall. Of course I don’t expect an open con¬ fession, but there’s not even a trace. No one knew the men were missing.”

“I guess we shall have to give it up, sheriff,” the coroner told me a week later. “It will always be one of the old field’s unsolved mysteries.”

I T has been six months since the finding of the bodies. I have been re-elected sheriff for my third term. I stand high over the whole state as an officer of the law. No one remem¬ bers the seven bodies in the tank.

I was strong. I gloried in my will power and self-control. I was sure that time would efface those horrible, haunting, oil-soaked, fear-stricken faces from my memory. It has only made them clearer. When I am awake the memory never leaves me. Asleep, the seven forms flit incessantly through my dreams. Ten thousand times have the scenes of that night come before me! I was on my way home. I accidentally came across seven men playing poker in an aban¬ doned shack—all boys and young men. Not the hardened gamblers, hi¬ jackers or vultures of the oil fields, but working boys enjoying them¬ selves after pay day.

I had the law back of me and re¬ ceived a commission on the fines I collected. Here was some extra change. I arrested the whole bunch —not a hard procedure, for they were only working boys. Not being able to take them to town with me, I looked around for some place that would do for a jail. A new, fifty-five thousand barrel tank—just the thing! It wouldn’t be used for some time, and I should be back tomorrow. I marched them to the top and searched



The Death Bottle

(Continued from page 38)

One night toward the end of Feb¬ ruary, a blizzard more furious than any of the winter roared over the Shumagin Islands. Towering break¬ ers thundered upon the ocean-exposed shores of Popoff and Nagai in a mighty cannonade, while the icy blasts whip-cracked down the moun¬ tainsides in crashing barrages of snow and sleet. Gusty drafts swept through the dark house, swaying the heavy window draperies uncannily, until Black Sigurd was driven to seek his father’s room, which was on the sheltered side.

Crouching there in the gathering darkness, the broken man suddenly felt that ho was not alone. His eyes went swiftly to the high oaken bed at the opposite side of the room, and instantly he sprang to his feet.

Sitting upon the bed was his own father! The old man’s little table was before him, and on it was the death bottle. As Black Sigurd stood frozen, the old man uncorked the bot¬ tle, put three tablespoonfuls of the liquid into a glass of water, and drank. Then he took off his slippers and crept into his blankets.

Black Sigurd continued to stand, paralyzed in the grip of that frightful hallucination. It had become pitchy dark outside, but the room remained hideously bright. Soon the old man began to rumple his blankets, and turning over on his face, he pressed his hands hard against his stomach. Twisting from side to side, he began to utter deep groans, which came clearly to Black Sigurd’s ears above the howling of the blizzard outside.

For a long minute, the dying man’s spasmodic contortions continued, while his anguished groans grew sharper and more stertorous. With a

barking rattle in his chest, he slowly rose up in his bed and east upon his son a terrible look of reproach and agony; then his death gurgle was drowned in a freshened shrieking of the gale without, and he fell flat upon his face, with his hands reaching far out and clutching at the bed sheets.

With a maniacal scream of frenzy. Black Sigurd rushed from the house, out into the darkness and storm. Half¬ running, half-sliding, he hurtled him¬ self through the wind and sleet to the door of the natives’ bunkhouse, down near the wharf. Rousing the Aleuts, he ordered them aboard the Eider. Terrified at his ghastly countenance and his glittering eyes, the natives dared not refuse.

Aboard the schooner, they set a reefed stump of a mainsail, then cut away the frozen mooring lines with an ax; whereupon the Eider scudded out of the harbor before the scream¬ ing gale. Threading his way among the islands in the stormy blackness and blinding snow squalls, Black Si¬ gurd at last felt the long, mountainhigh swell of the Pacific under him, and he knew that he was clear of the

Across eight hundred miles of storm-swept ocean Sigurd Knudsen drove the Eider to Valdez, the seat of the criminal court of the Alaskan Peninsula. Sailing the schooner fair¬ ly alongside a wharf, he sprang ashore and strode through the snow-drifted village streets up to the territorial court-house. Straight into the mar¬ shal ’s office he walked, in his wet and frozen sea-gear.

“I murdered my father!” were his first words to Brenneman, the marThen, with a pair of handcuffs on his wrists, he recounted unsparingly all the details of his crime.

r h e^r of h hiXh"H^

sentenced to be hanged.

“Today,” he raid. '“Now!”

Classified Advertisements

iHHP^

H“lii

||faS

When he reached the weathermm

SSFSS31

mmgSkm :

mMM§

S,«aS3;SS

mmFsMMim:

Salesmen , Agents, Field Men!

How Many Prospects Like This Do You Pass Every Day?

NEWS STANDS, CIGAR STORES DRUG STO]

S3 to $10 an Hour, Spare Time

? That’s Different

SitSSSSaSS;352®?“-=

[THE END]

============================================================
VIAL
by Black Sigurd took a pinch of
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
WAS CERTAINLY STRYCHNIN
by When the
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
LAND
by Soon a power boat put out from
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
AND PUT IT BACK
by But in the afternoon
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
INTO THE HANDS OF HIS ONLY SON
by Black
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
FATHER’S BIG HOUSE
by Alaskan winter
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
FANCIES OF HIS IMAGINATION
by The face
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
FROM THE HOUSE
by Returning aboard
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
FIERCER GALES AND HURRICANES
by There
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
WORLD OF SNOW AND GRANITE
by Black
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
HE COULD GET NO MORE
by This was a
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
WRECKED NERVES
by In his weakening
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
ARE PUZZLING QUESTIONS
by Yet many
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
SELF AT LEAST ONE NIGHT
by Gradually it
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
DAY, I MARRIED
by Then my troubles
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
IDEAL MATE
by Yet that single fault was
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
MOST ANNOYING
by Lucetta was strongly
============================================================

[THE END]
