============================================================
Weird Tales
Volume 14, Number 1
Date: July 1929
Cover Price: $1.50
============================================================
============================================================
TABLE OF CONTENTS

  1. "Forbidden Magic Robert E" by Howard
============================================================
============================================================
FORBIDDEN MAGIC ROBERT E
by Howard
============================================================
"Yes,” he said, as they continued toward the palace.

[ THE END ]

Forbidden Magic

By ROBERT E. HOWARD

There came to me a Shape one summer night When all the world lay silent in the stars And moonlight crossed my room with ghostly bars.

It whispered hints of weird unhallowed sight ;

I followed, then in waves of spectral light Mounted the shimmery ladders of my soul.

Where moon-pale spiders, huge as dragons, stole —

Great forms like moths with wings of wispy white.

Then round the world the sighing of the loon Shook misty lakes beneath the false dawn’s gleams.

Rose-tinted shone the skyline’s minaret.

I rose in fear and then with blood and sweat Beat out the iron fabrics of my dreams

And shaped of them a web to snare the moon.

An Utterly Bizarre Story Is

Night -Thing

By WILFORD ALLEN

A SURGE of revulsion came hard on the realization of what those L. strange space-cars meant — a wild, indescribable feeling that swept shudderingly over me. Such an emotion — ^utterly unreasonable it had then seemed to me — I had seen in the hearts of men at sights which caused my oAvn soul to leap with exultation.

Back when I had the foim of a man for a brief period, with power commensurate with my desires, I had caused such shrinkings to tear at the hearts of my followers even, that time I had massacred an entire population. The sight of death with its \dsible evidences had been wine to my soul; yet then, uncomprehending, I had seen the hardiest of my men shudder at death upon such a scale — men who had joyously dealt death to many a lesser group with a will that matched my own. But their emotion that once, evident enough, was inexplicable to the soul of me, which burned with a cold fire that fed on death and gloated over its remains! That day I despised the tribe of men.

Later, free from the limitations of the body, I have seen that shuddering in the hearts of multitudes at sights which caused me, all unseen by them, to cavort madly with a frantic glee. Scuttling astride the winds of the north under the cold dead moon, I have come upon the unburied who could lie for months in the snow, exposed yet retaining their forms to throw long gray shadows pointedly over the white surface. Again, when the moon rode high and the shadows had drawn back into the motionless

things, I have returned to such rendezvous with joy, at times to find the dead encircled by ravening lupine forms which fied howling at the presence which they knew full well. Sometimes I have met a party which has located the body. And then, always, I have seen that unexplainable emotion in the hearts of those fearful gatherers of the dead — that shrinking horror of what for the soul and being of me and mine was feast.

The cold of space — when I had the form of a man, men knew nothing of space. Since then I have seen some loiowledge of it growing among men, and again in their hearts it has bred that feeling, as much at variance with mine as the measure of the space between the worlds of fiame and death. Men shudder when thej’" contemplate it, as they shudder in the presence of death, while I at times must swirl out to seek it eagerly, after a time upon the warmer earth, as man, poor ignorant know-it-all, rushes into the coolness of the night to escape from the stuffy warmth of a closed space, or the burning rush of his puny emotions. The cool of space — ^the perfection it is, of death, which only I and mine appreciate. The death of all — which is the absence of emotion — rest. For all death brings cold and rest^ Out There, all is cold — and the delight of perfect rest and exultation.

So I was There, exulting in the chill which instruments can not measure, but only the soul, when I saw the first of the great space craft.

“Aha!” I chuckled and rubbed my hands with heatless mirth. ‘ ‘ Some of

MIGHT-THING


those inventors have slipped one over on me ! I knew some fools were working on plans to penetrate space while yet they held to their corporeal forms — poor fools ! But I didn ’t know they had succeeded. Arko! I must see! There’s death in the making, and a cold death!” And I chortled.

But too soon I knew the incredibly disagreeable ti’uth. Not from Eartli were those ships. No mortals, predestined to a cold death by their boldness. Those who guided the great cars had no dealings with death. They had lived for a trillion times a trillion years. Far older than I, they were. Small sustenance for my needs in such folk, and I would liave darted off with a crackling curse, but a chance thought adrift in space crossed my brain, and I stayed.

Then, before I was even sure of the thought, the ship in which I had stationed myself dissolved in a puff of green-blue light. It was there — then it was no more ! Untouched myself, I could not realize the truth for a time, although the hint of it had come to me in that surge of terror which I had caught from those people before they had poufed from the world. But then I looked, and saw! And knew !

Far off was another car, larger than that which had vanished. It darted swiftly away — was gone with a speed which I have not often surpassed, and in the same flash of vanishment went the companion craft of the annihilated ship, avengers eager on the trail. A great flare out in space where they had disappeared; and I knew even before I reached the spot in the next light-mile of time, that the destroyer had been destroyed.

War! And the end of people ! But such an end! No bodies here for the gripping cold to encompass and stiffen! No corpses to spring again to life of humbler, crawling sort under warmer influences ! Life which had oiitlasted the earth itself — then

nothing ! No death — for death leaves its dead. No comfort in that for my soul, but ozily a crawling shrinking like that incomprehensible emotion I had so often wondered at in the souls of men faced with death.

It was just beginning. Repressing the urge to flee from the scene, because some sense told me it would be futile, I forced myself to enter another of the victorious craft. It was hard — ^never have I done a thing so hard before, and I felt such creepings in my heart as I knew were counterparts of those then inexplicable vibrations which had racked the brains of men at sights which had been joydrink to my soul. And as I learned the full truth, a shivering set in within my own brain which, unconti'ollable for a time, seemed destined certainly to wreck it. It was war. Between two sets of the creatures. This would have been well enough. The fii’st disappointment of my expectations over, I would be content for them to exterminate one another, so long as I still had my Earth and its men. But one group, and that the aggressor, was determined to wipe the human race from its home! No bodies would be there any more for the feeding of my soul ! Nothing! Nor ever again! Robbed of the nourishment that was horror to men, what was there for me?

Then I began in dread fact to understand those emotions which I had so often seen in men, but only to stare at in amazement before. Held fascinated by the hovering fate, I attached myself to those creatures while they battled. Two groups there were, as I said. The original group, the Lirans, and another, Mordans, beings from some distant star who had stolen the secrets of the Lirans and set out to annihilate from the universe all life but theirs. And the Mordans were in a fair way to achieve their purpose.

For the first time I felt in my soul an intense desire for the earth to



survive. Each time a party of Liraus met and annihilated a squadron of Mordans I chortled gleefully, forgetful of the fact that the catastrophe was productive of no bodies for the slaking of the feverish thirst which was rising within me and which even space was unable to cool. Each time a Liran fleet suffered I ground my teeth until their points chipped gratingly, sending shivers of pain to ray brain.

I SOON found I had only met the flank guards of the retreating Lirans. Beaten backward for a thousand years they had been, and after them the destroying Mordans had pressed always. To them all, time was nothing.

Paseinated by what impended when they should sweep by the Earth, which the Mordans would wipe free of all vestiges of what had been life before darting on in pursuit of the beaten Lirans, I took my post with the central body of the latter. Back we were swept. Back until the rings of Saturn, hung luridly above us. Then, perhaps inspired by the cold glory of the sight, the Liran defense stiffened. Crescent-shaped their formation was, and into it plowed the wedge of the pursuere, millions strong in ships and billions in lives. Flare after flare colored that space where other matter was not, as the advance guards met, to fuse into one great flash of green-tinged crimson as the main body of the enemy struck and tore through. Its outer layers had vanished as they encountered the matter-de.stroying rays of the Lirans, but it was only the peeling of the outer skin from an onion. The body remained, as strong as ever and more dangerous. Then it developed that the Lirans were the fleeter of the two forces. Like a flasli the crescent closed in, peeled one more layer from the onion, and was off to form again a half billion miles beyond. Thus it had been for ages. Fight and retreat.

Winning sometimes, in minor engagements, but not daring to stand long in the major fights. Stalling for time.

Earth became visible, a faint star not many degrees from the crimson streamers of the sun. A wave of despair engulfed me. Another such stand and flight, and the rout would stream past the Earth. A few of the. pursuing fleet — a few would be more than sufficient for the task — ^v'ould drop out to swoop upon that unsuspecting world. For the first time I cursed the invisibility of my form which rendered me helpless to warn or to battle live beings of flesh. Life would vanish from the globe in a series of flashes which would be so rapid that not even the word of the first would ever be told to those about to die next. A few light-miles and Earth would be bare of life — and, more horribly, of death ! On it would be nothing but water and ray-pocked rock. And I, left, unable even to die by the rays which could bring death to beings built of the matter of flesh ! I laughed crazily at the grisly joke of it so ray jaws ached with the spasm. I — ^who exist so intensely though coldly! But not for long would I exist, with death annihilated along with life. I would shrivel and die. The agony of that death commenced in my soffi with the thought, as the fever mounted.

The next stand of the Lirans came quickly. They were nearing the end of their power of resistance, yet did not flee 1001*0 than the distance requisite for reforming, just within the orbit of Jupiter. In the short fury of that conflict I exulted doubly, as it seemed for a brief instant that the Liran force would triumph at last and the earth be saved — for death and me and such as I. But it was not so. The battle — and then the Liran fleet was speeding back for a chance to form again. A million deaths in that brief instant ! But no ? Not deaths — extinctions. No forms of

NIGHT-THING


the dead for the delectation of my soul. I ground my teeth in rage at Mordan and Liran together, for by then I knew that it was the Lirans who had discovered ways to cheat death, prolonging life until extinction intervened.

When the Lirans formed for a third stand — mad with the certainty of the end they must have been — it was so near the Earth that the lights from annihilated ears and men must have been seen from the northern hemisphere, had it been night on the side tiirned toward the fight.

Knowing in advance the inevitable defeat of the defending fleet in this, the last stand possible before the Mordan cars would overrun the unsuspecting Earth, I tore and slobbered with rage.

Then I sensed a strange stirring which came over the crew of the car in which I was. A message had arrived, and in a moment the fleet was in full flight. It was the end for me! In a* long line the Lirans were streaming past the pole of the Earth, deserting it to its fate. Deserting me!

The Mordan host paused, as bewildered as I at the unexpected yielding, then gave chase. Suddenly, far to the south, above the Earth, a spot of blackness appeared. Like an opaque veil it seemed to pounce from space, shutting in between the fleeing Lirans and their pursuers. I had stayed behind, for what avail w'as there in going on, or for the matter of that, in staying, except that the space about the Earth was my home? Home ? I cackled hysterically. Home ! Abode of nothing, in a moment ! Home of nothing, not even of the something that was nothing w’hich was I !

T he veil of darkness advanced swiftly, hid from view the sun and earth. All in that direction was shut off as though by an impenetrable blanket. A small thing at first, the

screening blackness loomed rapidly luitil it assumed the appearance of a great dark wall of solid matter, onrushing at terrific speed. As star after star vanished it was as thoiigh that wall had annihilated them as completely as the strange rays of the battling hosts annihilated each other.

Desperately, the Mordan fleet crowded on speed to escape, recognizing a threat in the oncoming dark. Up they darted, dowm, and sideward. The leading elements, seeing early that they had no time to turn, dashed into that wall of black seemingemptiness. -Head on, savagely, with the despair that breeds frantic effort, they tore ahead, the rays which, streaming to the front like giant headlights had never failed to blast a path through opposing matter, stabbing out angrily. But those rays had met their match. Not even a flicker of light marked the points where individual beams struck the onrushing blackness.

With a yelp of fright as I realized mj' position, I flashed swiftly from the path of the oncoming destruction, which might have wiped out even me. I forgot in the sudden surge of terror that a moment before I had feared that I could not And such a swift, clean death. Behind, I saw the leading ships of the Mordan fleet already flashing into nothingness. By the sight, I knew that their destroying rays, reflected back upon them from that w’all at which they dashed as it advanced remorselessly, were consuming the things which had generated them. On they dashed, to vanish in evanescent flame. Only those who had been able to essay flight remained, and they were diminishing into the far distance. But not swiftly enough.

As though that blackness were sentient, it seemed to see the escaping Mordans and leaped after them Avith the snap of a tiger’s bound. So 1 had leaped upon the very first to fall beneath my weapons — a play;-



mate of mine all unsuspecting tiie bloodlust which flared within my soul. I had been young when I first knew my dastiny. Now, w'atching that leaping death-engine which had no form, I knew' my master. I stared entranced, then shrieked soimdlessly with glee. The edges of the darkness w'ere up with the fleeing .ships. They passed. The black mass closed in like the two jaws of a huge inky maw. No eyes saw those ships again.

As suddenly as it had appeared, there w'as no black curtain in the heavens. The stars shone again with undiminished brilliancy out there in the cnld, and among them were the bunched lights of innumerable hosts of space-cars — the lights of the Canopians, a branch of the Liran race who had colonized the region of Canopus. With their invention, the wall of force, they had arrived to turn the tide, to wipe it out.

The Liran fleet reassembled, swung to join the Canopians. Together, a vast armada, they streamed off into tliat outer space where they have abolished death. Rage sw'elled in my brain at tlie thought, to be transformed into relief as the next thought came. The space of the Sun was ours again. Mine!

A fter the tension lifted, a cold .sweat came out on me. Every particle sagged and shook, and I must have gone out of my head, as I did once on Earth, back in tho.se days before history when I had human form. At least, the next that I knew' I was on the nightward side of the Earth. There on a frozen plain was a body. Aboiit it circled a wolf-pack, snarling, while lc.sser scavengers skulked in the background. After

my arrival tiie wolves, too, their hackles risen, slunk back, while I, beside the corpse, laughed with wild triumph at the cool, familiar scene. The moon sailed blue and cold; the w'ind W'as vibrant with nameless thrills, and shrill. Here was Earth again, as of old, all unsuspecting tho fate that had sw'ung above it, or that thci'c could be, out there in space, a race which had conquered death. If Earth beings but gues.sed that it had been done, they w'ould somehow find the way to emulate those others. The Lirans, too, had once been subject to death and decay, before they discovered the .secret w'hich cheats my kind. But by now the Lirans, with the Canopians, are far out, beyond the brighter stars — perhaps beyond the Milky Way, speeding toward w orlds in other nebulee. Only I know the truth.

Only I know’ the truth!* And why should I give up my secret and rob myself of my ow'n? Ha! Ha! Ha! The joke of it is that I could not tell if I would. No man may hear me, for I have no voice for men. And as if I would! And who would believe if I could? At the sight of me men would lose their minds. That horrible feeling which I now' know’ so well, though once it puzzled me, would cour.se through their brains and drive out the power to think or know'. Ho ! Ha!

Up! Gloat! And follow the moon to another appointment with death? Adrift of the air comes a me.ssage from bare crags in the w’est. Out there another wolf -pack circles a dark spot which still lives. But .soon it will be cold. The kill w'ill be made by the wolves, my old tools, but it is I who will enjoy it to the full!

SWEET ORASS' •

hy HENRY'S-WtllTEHEAD *

"Take off the ‘obi’ now; otherwise I will kill you both.”

A TALE, this, of the Black Obayi of Asharitee. . , . b. Nybladh, administrator for the Copenhagen Company of the Easmussen Central, allotted Estate Pairfield to young Cornells Hansen, just out from Denmark to the Danish West Indies to begin the life of a sugar planter. Cornells, tall, straight, ruddy-cheeked, twenty-two, fell in love with the island of Santa Cruz and with his pretty little house.

Nybladli had indeed used diplomacy in that allotment. An inexperience estate manager could do little harm at Fairfield. The house stood, quite near the sea, at the western end

of the Central’s many properties, among dimpling hills. Hillside cane was a losing venture. Very little was groAvn at Fairfield, and that on its small proportion of level bottom-land. Then, Cornells could be promoted as soon as he became accustomed to the practicalities. That would mean a favorable report to Old Straeh, Cornells’ uncle in Copenhagen. Old Straeh owned the Central.

Cornells proved to be a social success from the very start. The Santa Crucian gentiy drove up to call on him in their family carriages, to the little stone house glistening frostily in the Caribbean sunlight. It had been



freshly whitewashed — Crucian wash, held together with molasses, and now baked to the appearance of alabaster by the relentless sun.

At their own houses Comelis met the resident planters, chiefly Scottish and Irish gentlefolk and their sons and daughters. Also he became acquainted with the officers at the three Danish garrisons — at Christiansted, Prederiksted, and Kingshill. Many visitors, too, came Qver from St. Thomas, the capital, forty-three miles away; others, too, from the English Islands — Antigua, St. Kitts, even sometimes from Montserrat or St. Lucia. There was never any lack of good company on Santa Cruz. This tropical life was vastly different from Copenhagen. Comelis was never homesick. He did not want to go back to cold Copenhagen. There, it seemed now to Comelis, he had been spending a beginningless eternity, absorbed in his chemistry, his English, and other dull studies. All that had been to fit him to take his place here in this pleasant, short-houred, expensive life of a tropical planter in the sugar-trade. He enjoyed the new life from its very beginning. Yet, in spite of his pleasant housing, his hospitable entertainment, his unaccustomed freedom to come and go, he was, sometimes poignantly, lonesome.

His new friends did not, perhaps, realize the overpowering effect of the sudden change upon this northernbred man ; the effects of the moonlight and the soft trade-wind; the life of love which surrounded him here. Love whispered to him vaguely, compellingly. It summoned him from the palm fronds, rustling dryly in the continuous breeze ; love was telegraphed through the shy, bovine eyes of the brown girls in his estate-house village ; love assailed him in the breath of the honeylike sweet grass, undulating all day and all night imder the white moonlight of the Caribbees, pouring over him intoxicatingly through his opened jalousies as he lay, often sleepless, through long nights of spice and balm smells on his mahogany bedstead — pale grass, looking like snow under the moon.

The half-formulated yearnings which these sights and sounds were begetting were quite new and fresh in his experience. Here fresh instincts, newly released, stirred, flared up, at the glare of early-aftemoon sxmlight, at the painful scarlet of the hibiscus blooms, the incredible indigo of the sea — all these flames of vividness through burning days, wilting into a caressing coolness, abruptly, at the fall of the brief, tropic dusk. The fundament of his crystallizing desire was for companionship in the blazing life of this place of rapid growth and early fading, where time slipped away so fast.

At first he had wondered, vaguely, how other men had met this primal urge. Very soon he saw that the answer to that was all about him, here in his own estate-village. Here were ruddy zambos, pale-brovTi mulattoes, cream-colored octoroons — mestizos of every type, of every shade of skin. That was one answer; that had been the great answer, here in the West Indies, from time immemorial; the answer here on Santa Cruz of the Spaniards and the Dutch, as many names showed; of the French and of his own people, the Danes. He wondered, whimsically, what had been the answer in the case of those austere Knights of Malta who had owned the island for a season.

But, for Cornells, fastidiousness intervened. Across the edge of that solution hung the barrier of his inertia, his resistance, his pride of a Caucasian. The barrier seemed insurmountable to Comelis.

Marriage? Was he not young for that? He asked himself that question many times. One did not marry, ideally, without love; love true and deep and trustful; love founded on

SWEET GRASS


acquaintance, appreciation, some conviction of permanence. Those were the backgrounds of marriage.

Some daughter of one of the gentry planters, perhaps? Those girls had the domestic virtues. But — he wns comfortable enough with his good servants at Fairfield House. His yearnings had little relation to somebody to pi’eside over his household. Somehow, to Cornells, these young ladies of the planter gentry were not alluring, vital. The most attractive of them, Hoiioria Macartney, he could hardly imagine beside him perpetually. Honoria had the deadwhite skin of the Caucasian creole lady whose face has been screened from the suii since infancy.

“And how are you enjoying the island?” .she had asked him on an afternoon Avhen he had been visiting the Macartney’s, eating some of Honoria ’s perfect small frosted cakes; drinking her rather too-strong tea on the east gallery of her father’s estatehouse near Christiansted.

Cornells reassured her. He was enjoying himself very much indeed. Everything Honoria said, did, wore — he felt instinctively — was — suitable. That was the English word for it. Yes.

Looking at her, as he had looked at her various other afternoons, Cornells was certain his mother in Copenhagen would approve of her as a daughterin-law. JMost of the Crucian young gentry ladies were like that. Suitable — that was the precise word. . . .

'^HAT night he lay, sleepless, on the mahogany bed. The grass on the rolling hillsides seen through the opened jalousies under the full moon of February was at its palest, more than ever suggesting snow. That he had observed driving up the straight road from the sea to his house less than an hour before. He had dined with the Macartneys — a ])laeid, uneventful evening. Mrs. Macartney had mentioned that Honoria had

made the dessert. It had been a Danish dessert, for him; “red grout” — sago pudding stained purple witli cactus-fruit. Honoria had made it perfectly. He had complimented her upon her pudding.

The warm, pxilsing breath of the sweet grass surged through the open windows in a fashion to turn the head of a stone imago. It was exotic, too sweet, exaggerated, like everything else in this climate ! Cornells turned over again, seekiixg a cool place on the broad bed. Then he sat up in bed, impatiently throwing off the sheet. A thin streak of moonlight edged the bed below his feet. He slipped out of bed, walked over to a window. He leaned out, looking down at the acres of undulating grass. There seemed to be .some strange, hypnotic rhythm to it, some vague magic, as it swayed in the night wind. The scent poured over him in great, pulsing breaths. He shut his eyes and drew it in, abandoning his senses to its effect.

Instinctively, without thought .or plan, he walked out of his open bedroom door, down the stairs, out upon the south gallery below. The smooth tiles there felt caressingly cool to his bare feet. Jessamine here mingled with the sweet grass. He drew a light cane chair to the gallery’s edge and sat, leaning his anns on the stone coping, his shadow sharply defined in the cold moonlight. He looked out at the sea a long time. Then he shut his eyes, drinking in the intoxicating, mixed odors.

A sound secured his attention. He raised his head, looked doum his narrow private road toward the sea. Clearly outlined in the moonlight a girl, i)ossibly fifteen, came along the road toward him. About her lithe body hung a loose slip, and around her head, carelessly twined, turbanwise, was draped a white towel. She was quite close, making no soxind on the sandy road with her bare feet.

His shadow moving slightly, perhaps, stax'tled her. She paused in her



languorous stride, a slender neck bearing erect a fawnlike hea'd, nostrils Avide, eyes open, taken unaw'ares.

Then tlie girl recognized him and curtsied, her sudden smile revealing white, regular teeth set in a delicate, wide mouth, a mouth made for love. In the transfoiming magic of the moonlight hei* pale brown skin showed like cream.

“Bathing in de sea,” she murmured explanatorily.

Lingeringly, as though with reluctance, she resumed her sedate, slow walk, the muscles flowing, i*ippling, as lliough to pass around the house to the village at the rear. Her eyes she kept fixed on Cornells.

Conielis, startled, had felt suddenly cold at the imexpected, wraithlike sight of her. Now his blood surged back, his heart pounding tumultuou.sly. A turbulent wave of sea air sweetened from acres of sweet grass surged over him. He closed his eyes.

“Come!” he whispered, almost inaudibly.

But the girl heard. She paused, looked up at him, hesitating. He managed to nod his head at her. The blood pounded in his veins; he felt detached, weak, dromied in the odor of sweet grass and jessamine.

The girl ran lightly \ip the gallery’s stone steps. The pattern of the small jessamine leaves played grotesquely upon her when she paused, as moonlight filtered through them and they moved in the light, irregular sea breeze.

Cornells inse and looked down into the girl’s eyes. Their amber irises were very w'ide and an eeiy light played in them; a Icind of hrminous glow, a softening. . . .

Ti’embling, he placed a tentative hand on her shoulder, gently. She leaned tow'ard him; his arms went about her firm, slender body. Young Cornells Hansen felt, for the first lime, a girl ’s heart tumultuously beating against his breast.

A hush enveloped the quiet of the pure, clear night. No dog muttered from the sleeping estate-village. A fresh breath, enervating, redolent of the acres of weaving grass, fanned the gallery. A delicate beam of moonlight seemed, to yoimg Cornells, entranced, bewitched, to usher them into the open doorw'ay of his house. . . .

Then, suddenly, almost brutally it seemed, even to him, he thrust this pale, browm girl of gossamer and moonlight away from him. He stood clear of her, no longer bemused by the witchery of the breeze and the moonlight’s magic. With more of gentleness he laid again his hand ou the delicate, rounded shoulder. As gently he turned the girl about and marched her, resolutely — like a Dane — toward the gallery steps. His fastidiousness had reasserted itself.

“Good night — my child,” said Cornells.

The girl looked up at him shyly, out of the comers of her eyes, puzzled and resentful.

“Good night, sar,” she murmured, and slipped down the steps and like a shadow' around the comer of the house.

Cornells w'alked firmly into his house and shut the door behind him. He went into his dining-room and poured himself a glass of French brandy at the sideboard. He drank his brandy and rinsed out the glass from the earthen w'are water-gugglet, throw'ing the w'ater onto the stone floor. Then he mounted the stairs to his bedroom, got into bed, rolled over on his side, and Avent to sleep.

O N THE morning after his tea he AA'as riding about his fields so early that he Avas finished Avith his managerial inspection befoi'e 9. Ten o’clock saAv him, A'ery carefully .sliaved, and wearing spotless white drill and his best Danish straw hat instead of a .sun helmet, driving a pair of horses in the light phaetou toward Christiansted.

SWEET GEASS


That same afternoon, during the period devoted to swizzels of old rum or brandy and, especially among the Danes, tea and coffee and cakes — the period of sociability before the company at the various great houses broke up before its various dinnerparties — Cornelis called at the Nybladhs’. The Administrator and his wife were pleased to see him, as always. Several others were present, quite a company in fact, for the swizzel-hour at Nybladh’s was almost an official occasion.

After a quarter of an hour, Cornelis drew the Administrator aside and they spoke together briefly, then returned to the company gathered about an enormous mahogany table which held the silver swizzel jug and the afternoon’s lunch.

At the next pause in the conversation Nybladh rose, focusing his guests’ attention upon himself. He held up his glass.

“Be pleased to fill all glasses,” he commanded, importantly.

There was a considerable bustle about the great round table. Nybladh noted the fulfilling of his command. Servants hurried about among the guests. When all were freshly served he cleared his throat and waved his own glass ceremoniously.

“I announce” he paused, impressively, all eyes dutifully upon him. “I announce — the engagement of Herr Hansen and Miss Honoria Macartney. Skoal!” He boomed it out sonorously. Every glass was raised.

Cornelis bowed from the waist, deeply, to each of his pledgers, as they drank the health of himself and his bride-to-be.

Thus did Honoria, daughter of the great Irish- West Indian family of the Fighting Macartneys, become the Fru Hansen, after an exceptionally brief engagement, and leave her father’s house to live at Estate Fairfield with her husband who was the nephew of Old Strach.

A West Indian family does not pick up titles fi-om the populace by knocking about their estates and doing nothing. The Fighting Macartneys were well worthy of theirs. Even Saul Macartney, their ancient black sheep, who had paid the penalty of piracy by hanging in St. Thomas in 1824 along with the notorious Fawcett, his chief, and who, as some believed, had been strangely magieked even after his death by his cousin Camilla Lanigan who was believed to practise obeah and was immensely respected by the negroes — even the disgraced Saul was no poltroon. The jewels Saul and Captain Fawcett buried under Melbourne House, Saul’s Santa Cruz mansion, had not been handed that miscreant over the counter !

This young Honoria was of that sanguine blood, even though her sheltered life had made her walk somewhat mincing and there was no color in her cheeks. She began her reign at Fairfield like a sensible young housewife, studying Cornelis’ likes and dislikes, satisfjdng him profoundly, beyond his very moderate expectations. The ardent yet selfcontained young man had linked to himself something compounded of fire and silk. Honoria brought to her housekeeping, too, great skill and knowledge, from her young lifetime in her mother’s great house near Christiansted.

She was a jewel of a wife, this young Honoria Hansen, bom Macartney. Cornelis came suddenly to love her with an ardency which even he had never dreamed of as possible, like flame. Then their love was tempered in a fearful happening.

O NE morning when Cornelis was riding early about his sugar fields, it came to him, traversing a cane-range on his black mare, Aase, that never, before or .since that sleepless night when he had called the girl to him on the gallery, had he laid



eyes upon that girl. That he would i‘ecogi\i 2 e the girl whom, for a moment of abandoned forgetfxibiess of his fastidioiis reserve, he had held in his arms, whose body had lain against his heart, was l)eyond question in his mind. Then it occurred to him that he had thought of the girl as living in his village. That night when he had dismissed her, she had walked away around the house toward the cabins at the rear. He shuddered — those cabins!

Yet the fact remained that, cogitate the matter as he might, riding along at Aase’s delicate walking pace, he could not recollect having laid eyes upon her, cither before or since that night when he had sent her away. It was very curious, intexiilicable indeed — if the girl lived in his village. There n as really no way to enquire. Well, it did not greatly matter, of course ! A l)ro\vn girl wa.s — a bi’ovTi girl. They were all alike. Oornelis rode on to another canefield.

Telepathy, perhaps! When he arrived at Fairfield House toward 11, under the mounting brilliance of the late-morning sunlight, and to.ssed his bridle-reins to Alonzo his groom at the front gallery steps, the girl stood l)cside the door of Fairfield House, in- .side the high hallway. She curtsied gravely to him as he passed wdtlihi.

Cornelis’ mouth went dry. He managed to nod at the girl, who reached for his sun helmet and hung it on the hallway hatracdc.

“Mistress say de brekfuss prepare’ in few moments, sar,” announced the girl.

Hoiioria, in his absence, it ap- ])eared, had engaged this girl as a house-servant. There was no other explanation of her presence in the house. She had been carefully dressed, rustling with starch, the very picture of demureness. Cornells strode upstairs to wash before late breakfast, which came at 11.

His equanimity was sufficiently restored after breakfast to enquire of

Honoria about the new heusemaid. The girl had been engaged that morning, taking the place of one Anastasia Holmquist, a Black girl, who had sent a message, by this girl, Julietta Aagaard, that she was learfng the service of Fru Hansen, and had (Atained Julietta to take her place.

“She seems a very quiet, good girl, ’ ’ added Honoria, “ and she knows her duties.”

“She is not of our village, eh?” enquired Cornells, tentativelj^

“No. She saj’^s she lives with her mother, somewhere up in the hills.” Honoria hidicated with a gesture the section of the island behind Fairfield.

Cornelis found his mind relieved. The girl was not of his village. Only otie thing remained to be explained. He understood now why he had not observed the girl about the estate. But what had she been doing “bathing in the sea” at night? Such a practise was unheard of among the negroes. Pew, indeed, would venture abroad or even out of their houses, unless necessity compelled, after da A. The houses themselves were closed up tightly, at nightfall, the doors of the cabins marked with crosses to keep out Jumbee — ghosts; their corrugated-iron roofs strewed with handfuls of sea-sand, the counting of which d^elayed the werewolf marauding nightly. A vast superstition ruled the lives of the Santa Crucian negroes with chains of iron. They believ^ in necromancy, witchcraft; they practised the obeah for sickness among themselves, took their vengeances with the aid of the Vauxdoulc; practises brought in through Cartagena and Jamaica; from Dakar to the Congo mouths in the slave days ; Obayi from Ashantee; Vauxdoux, worship of the Snake with its attendant horrors, through the savage Dahomeyans who had slaved for King Christophe in the sugar fields of Black Haiti.

To go from up in the. hills to the sea, at night, for a bath — ^it was simply imheard of. Yet, the girl, seesWKET r-JRASS


ing him there on the gallery, had been plainly startled. She had come from the sea. Her lithe body, the towel about her head, had been sea-damp that night. It was unheard of, unless . Cornells had learned something in the six months of his residence on Santa Cruz.

“Who is Julietta’s mother?” he enquired suddenly.

Houoria did not know an3h:hing about Julietta’s mother. This was the West End of Santa Cruz, and Honolia had lived all her life near Christiansted.

But, three days later, from a browbeaten Alonzo, Cornells learned the truth. The deference with which the young Julietta had been treated by the other servants, the Black People of his village, had been marked. Reluctantly Alonzo told his master the truth. Julietta’s mother was the mamaloi, the witch-woman, of this portion of the island.

Beyond satisfying his emdosity, this news meant little to Cornells. He was too much a product of civilization, too much Caucasian, for the possible inferences to have their full effect upon him. It was not imtil some days later, when he surpi-ized the look of sullen hatred in Julietta’s swiftly drooped eyes, that it recurred to him ; that the thought crossed his mind that Julietta had come into service in Pairfield House to retaliate upon him for her rejection. Hell hath no fury like a woman scorned ! There was no Danish equivalent to the English proverb, or if there was, it lay outside Cornells’ knowledge. Yet, although a European Dane — despite the fact that his residenee on Santa Cruz had not been long enough for him to realize what such deadly dislike as he had surprized in Julietta’s glance might mean — Cornells, no imbecile, did realize at the least a certain sense of discomfort.

Honoria, born on the island, could have helped the situation. But — there was no developed “situation.”

Cornells wished this girl at the bottom of the sea; transplanted to another and distant island of the archipelago, but beyond that there was no more tlian the sense of discomfort at the girl’s quiet, efficient presence about her duties in his house. He could not, of course, explain to his young wife his I'eason for wishing lithe Julietta away.

But the sense of discomfort, somehow, persisted strangely. He could not see Julietta, demure, neat, submissive to her young mistress, without being unpleasantly reminded of what he came to think of as his folly.

T hen, without rime or reason, the sense of discomfort localized itself. Cornells, annoyed during the night by a vague itching on his upper arms, discovered in the early-moming light a slight rash. Pi'ickly heat, he told himself, and anointed his burning arms with salve. Useless. The i*ash persisted, annoyed him all through his morning field-inspection.

That late-moming, in his shower bath after his ride among the cane fields, he noticed that the rash was spreading. It ran now below his elbows, was coming out about his neck. It burned detestably. He was obliged to towel himself very softly on the arms and neck that morning before he dressed for breakfast in his spotless white drill.

Julietta, waiting on table, did not look at him; went aboxrt her duties like a cleverly made automaton, her look distant, introspeetive.

Honoria reported an annoyance. One of Cornel is’ shirts had disappeared. They discussed it briefly over breakfast.

‘ ‘ But — it must turn ixp. ’ ’ Comelis dismissed the topic, spoke of his plowing of the field abutting on Hogensborg.

That night he was nearly frantic with his itching. Pustules, small, hard, reddish knobs that burned like fire, covered his arms and neck, were



spreading across the firm pectoral muscles of his chest, down his sides.

Ilonoria offered sympathy, and some salve for prickly heat she had brought from her father’s house. Together they anointed Cornelis’ burning skin.

“You must drive in to Frederiksted and see Dr. Schaff in the morning,” commanded Ilonoria. She dusted her husband’s body with her own ladylike rice-powder.

The daivn after a sleepless night discovered Cornelis’ torso a mass of the small, red, hard pustules. He was in agony. Honoria it was who drove in the five miles to Frederiksted, fetched Dr. Schaff from his duties at his municipal hospital, leaving his assistant, Dr. Malling-IIolm, in charge of the cases there as.sembled. Cornelis, Old Strach’s nephew, must not be kept waiting. Besides, Honoria had been insistent. She had seen something of the suffering of her man.

Sehaff had been on the island five years ; had earned his promotion there to be Chief Municipal Physician. He knew much about tropical mischances in his field of medicine. He looked wjth interest at the pustules. Coldbloodedly he punctured several. He wanted an analysis. He left a new kind of salve, drove back to the hospital with his specimens.

He di'ove back late in the afternoon, when the hospital day’s rush was over. He found Cornelis writhing in bed, his body' tortured wdth the solid spread of the infection. Curiously, his hands and face were free of the now solidly massed red pustules. They stopped at his wrists, and again at his neck. Below the waist, at the sides, his body -was free of the infection, which extended, however, down the front and back of his thighs.

“It iss verree curious, this!” commented the doctor, speaking English on Honoria ’s account. “It iss as though he had worn an infected shirt.”

Cornelis, through his three degrees of fever, spoke to Honoria.

“Have you discovered my shirt? You said there was a shirt gone.”

“Ha — .so-o-o!” muttered the doctor. “And where?”

‘ ‘ I can not say, ’ ’ said Honoria, her lips suddenly' dry'. She and the doctor looked at each other.

“A servant, perhaps?”

“It must be.” Honoria nodded. “No one else ”

Honoria disappeared while tlie doctor anointed Cornelis, writhing, afresh ; soothed him with a long, bitter draft.

Below, Ilonoria had resolutely summoned all the servants. They stood before her, expressionless.

“The master’s shirt is to be returned this night,” commanded Honoria imperiously, “I shall expect to find it — on the south gallery by 9 o’clock. Otherwise” — she looked about her at each expressionless face — “otherwi.se — the fort. There will be a dark room for every one of you — no food, no sleep, until it is confe.ssed. I will have none of this in my house. That is all. ’ ’

She came upstairs again, helped the doctor assiduously. At the door when he took his departure, she whispered :

“I have ordered them to return the shirt by 9 tonight.”

The doctor looked at her meaningly, an eyebrow lifted. “So I You understand, then, eh? It is bad, bad, this Black ‘stupidness’. Bum the shirt.’’

‘ ‘ Y es — of course, ’’said Honoria.

At 9 she descended the stairs, went out upon the south gallery among the scents of the white-floAvering jessamine ; the sweet grass. All was silent. The servants had left the house, as usual, about an hour before.

The shirt hung over the stone gallery-coping. She ran down the steps, found a stick, lifted the crumpled shirt on its end, carefully, carried it into the house. It bore no marks, save the crumpling. It had been soiled before its disappearance.

SWEET GRASS


She carried it into the kitchen, carefully lowered the comer of the thin garment until it caught fire from the embers of a charcoal-pot. The thin linen flamed up, and with her stick she manipulated it until every particle of it was consumed, and then stirred the embers. A few sparks came out. The shirt was completely burned.

Her face drawn, she returned to the bedroom above. Cornells was asleep. She sat beside his bed for two hours ; then, after a long look at his flushed face, she departed silently for her own room.

In the morning the fever was broken. Many of the smaller pustules had disappeared. The remaining rash was going down. Conielis, at her beseeching, remained in bed. At noon he arose. He felt perfectly well, he said.

“All that vexation about a little prickly heat ! ” Honoria sighed. She had four brothers. Men ! They were much alike. How often had she heard her mother, and other mature women, say that !

That night Conielis’ skin was entirely restored. It was as though there had been no interval of burning agony. Cornells, apparently, had forgotten that painful interval. But the reaction had made him especially cheerful at dinnertime. He laughed and joked rather more than usual. He did not even notice Julietta as she waited, silently, on the table.

T wo nights later, at the dinnertable, Cornells collapsed forward in the middle of a phrase. He went deathly white, his lips suddenly dry, a searing pain like the thrust of a carving-knife through and through his chest. Sudden froth stood at the corners of his mouth. The table-edge athwart him alone kept him from falling prone. He hung there, in intolerable agony, for seconds. Then, slowly, as it had ‘ ‘ gone in, ’ ’ the whitehot “knife” was withdrawn. He

drew in a labored breath, and Honoria supported him upright. She had flown to him, around the table.

As she stood upright propping him back into his chair, she saw Julietta. The bro^vn girl’s lips were drawn back from her even, beautiful teeth, her wide mouth in an animal-like snarl, her amber eyes boring into Cornells’ face, a very Greek-mask of hatred. An instant afterward, Julietta’s face was that of the blank, submissive housemaid. But Honoria had seen.

At a bound her hands were clenched tight about the girl’s slender arms and Julietta was being shaken like a willow wand in a great gale. Her tray, with glasses, shot resoundingly to the stone floor, to a tinkle of smashed glass. The Fighting Macartney blood showed red in Honoria ’s pallid face.

“It’s you, then, you deadly creature, is it, eh? You who have done this devilish thing to your master! You — in my house ! It was you, then, who made the rash, with your doubledamned ‘magic’!”

In the primitive urge of her fury at one who had struck at her man, Honoria had the slim brown girl against the room’s wall now, holding her helpless in a grasp like steel with her own slender arms.

Cornells, faint after that surge of unbearable, deadly pain, struggled to speak, there in his chair. Well-nigh helpless, he looked on at this unaccountable struggle. At last he found his voice, a voice faint and weak.

“What is it? — Avhat is it, Honoria, my dear?”

“It’s this witch!” cried Honoria, through clenched teeth. “It is she who has put the obeah on yoii. ’ ’ Then, “You she-devil, you will ‘take it off’ or I’ll kill you here and now. Take it off, then ! take it off ! ”

Honoria ’s voice had risen to a menacing scream. The girl cowered, wiltingly, under her fierce attack.

“Ooh Gahd — me mistress! Ooh,



Gaiid! ’Taint I, ma 'am, I swear to Galid — I ain’t do it, ma’am. Ooh., G a h d — ^me boan s ! Yo ’ break me, mistress. Fo’ Galid-love leave me to go !”

But Honoria, unrelaxed, the fighting-blood of lier elan aroused, held the browm girl relentlessly.

“Take it off!’’ eame, ever and again, through her small, clenched teeth. The brown girl began to struggle, inetfeetually, gave it up, submitted to 1)e held against the wall, her eyes now wide, frightened at this tmexpected. sudden violence.

“What is it that you tell her to do ? ” This from Cornelis, recovering, shocked, puzzled.

“It is their damnable ‘obi’,” hissed Honoria, “I will make her ‘take it off’ you or I’ll kill her.”

“It is her mother,” said Cornelis, suddenly inspired. “I know about her mother. I asked. Her mother, this gii-1 s mothei', there in the hills — it is the girl’s mother who does this wickedness. ’ ’

Honoria suddenly shifted her desperate grip upon the girl’s numb arms. She twisted, and Julietta’s slender body, yielding, collapsed limply to the floor. With a lightnmglikc motion, back ajid tlien forward again, Honoria menaced her with the great carving-knife, snatched from before her husband.

“Get up!” Her voice was low now, deadly. “Get up, you devil, and lead me to your mother ’s house. ’ ’

Julietta, trembling, silent, dragged herself to her feet. Honoria pointed to the door with the knife’s great shining blade.' In silence the girl slii)])od out, llongria following. Cornelis sat, still numb with that fearful inaction after his unbearable pain, slumfied fonvard now in his mahogany armchair at the head of his table. His bones felt like water. His head sank forward on his arnus. He remained motionless until Alonzo, the groom, summoned from the village by the frightened, gray-faeed cook, who

had overheard, roused him, supported him upstairs.

T he two women passed around the comer of Fairfield House, skirted the huddled cabins of the estate-village in silence, began to mount the steep hill at the back. Through tangled brush and twdniiig, resistant guinea-grass, a slender trail wound abruptly upward into the deeper hills beyond. Up, and alw'ays up they went, the Caucasian lady grim and silent, the great knife held menaciugly behind the unseeing back of the brown girl wlio stepped around turns and avoided roots and small rocks with the ease of custom.

At the head of the second ravine Honoria ’s conductress turned sharply to the right and led the way along the hill’s edge toward a small clearing among the mahogany and tibet-tree scrub. A dingy cabin, of wood, with the inevitable corrugated iron roof, Iiuug perilously on the hill’s seaward edge. Straight to its door walked Julietta, paused, tapped, oi>encd the door, and pressed close by Honoria, entered.

A dark brown woman peered at them across a small table. With her thumb, Honoria noted, slic w'as rubbing vnry carofully the side of a small waxlike thing, which glistened dully in the illumination of a small, smoky oil lamp standing on the table. The woman, her eyes glassy as thougli from the effects of some narcotic dnrg, peered dully at the intruders.

Honoria. her left bend clenched tightly on Julietta’s wincing shoulder, confronted her, the knife’s point resting on the table beside the browm liand which held the wax. This was molded, Honoria observed, to the rough simulacrum of a humau being.

“That is my husband!” announced Honoria without preamble. “You will take your ‘obi’ off now'. Otherwise#! will kill you both.”

A long, blackened needle lay beside

SWEET GRASS


the brown woman’s hand on the table. She looked up into Honoria’s face, dully.

“Yes, me mistress,” she acquiesced in a singsong voice.

“You will do that at once!” Honoria tapped her knife-blade on the table decisively. “I am Fru Hansen. I was Honoria Macartney. I mean what I say. Come!”

The brown woman laid the wax image carefully down on the table. She rose, dreamily, fumbled about in the semi-darkness of the cabin. She I’Ctumed carrying a shining, new tin, half filled with water. This, as carefully as she had handled the wax image, she set dowm beside it. Then, as gingerly, she picked up the image, muttered a string of unintelligible words in the old Crucian Creole, thickly interspersed with Dahomeyan. Honoria recognized several of the words — ‘ ‘ caffoon , ” “ Shandramadan ’ ’ — but the sequence she could not grasp.

The brown woman ended her speech, plunged the image into the water. She washed it carefully, as though it had been an incredibly tiny infant and she fearful of doing it some injury by clumsy handling. She removed it from the tin of water, the drops riuining down its surface of oily wax. She handed the image, with a suggestion of relaxed care now, to Honoria.

“Him aff, now, me mistress; I swear-yo’, him aff! I swear yo’ be Gahd, an’ help me de Jesus!”

Honoria took the image into her hand, looked at it curiously in that dim light, made upon it with her thumb the sign of the cross. Then she slowly broke it into pieces, the sweat standing in beads on her face. She turned, without another word, and walked out of the cabin. As she proceeded down the trail, laboriously now, her legs weak in her high-heeled slippers, she cast crumbling bits of the wax right and left into the dense scrub among the bushes at the trail’s

sides. Her mouth and throat felt strangely dry. She murmured inarticulate prayers.

S HE limped into Fairfield House half an hour later and found Cornells entirely restored. He asked her many questions, and to these she returned somewhat evasive answers. Yes — she had gone to Julietta’s mother’s cabin up the hill. Yes — the “stupidness” of these people needed a lifetime to realize. No — there had been no difficulty. Julietta’s mother was a “stupid” old creature. There would be no more trouble, she was sure. It was extraordinary what effects they could produce. They brought it with them from Africa, of course — stupidness, wickedness — and handed it down from generation to generation. . . .

She might have her own thoughts! — men were very much alike, as her mother had said — as the days wore into weeks, the weeks to the placid years which lay before her, with her man, here at Fairfield for a while, later, perhaps, in some larger house, in a more important position.

What had caused that devilish little Julietta to contrive such a thing? Those eyes ! that mouth ! Honoria had seen the hatred in her face.

She would, of course, never ask Cornells. Best to leave such matters alone. Men ! She had fought for this man — ^her man.

She would give him of her full devotion. There would be children in time. She would have, to replace Julietta, a new housemaid. There was one she remembered, near Christiansted. She would drive over tomorrow, The affairs of a Santa Crucian wife !

Cornells plainly loved her. He was hers. There would be deviled landcrabs, sprinkled with port wine, dusted with herbs, baked in the stone oven, for breakfast. . . .

M onsieur dallard, the

scholar, was greatly beloved by his neighbors. They considered him a good-natured, studious sort of man, kindly to his acquaintances, and hannless. He studied constantly, but it made no difference in his manner — he was always jovial and sociable. Those most interasted noted tliat he paid partieular attention in his studies to the great revolution which had set France free ; indeed, he had written a history of the French Revolution which the critics proclaimed as better than the average, and he seemed fascinated by the drama which had taken place around him so many years ago. His neighbors, not in any sense literarj^ people, heard vaguely that he wms an ardent champion of the aristocratic class which had been wiped out by the Terror, but as long as he was not aristocratic with them, they did not care.

He was their neighbor, and they like-i him.

One evening late in the fall. Monsieur Dallard sat, deep in thought, beside the little iron stove which heated his modest lodgings in the Rue St. Jacques. It was while he sat thus that his maid put her head in the door and coughed meaningly,

“Eh?” inquired Monsieur Dallard, looking up.

“Monsieur Clubin to see you. Monsieur” the maid said.

Monsieur Clubin was the neighborhood baker, one of the best in Paris, so Dallard thought, and a humble man. Nevertheless. Monsieur could not have been more polite to a prince, had one come to his door.

‘ ‘ Show him up, ’ ’ Monsieur Dallard said, setting some papers in order on his desk.

Monsieur Clubin came in at once, bowing to the scholar, who smiled

THE GUHiLOTINE CLUB


agreeably. The baker sat down in the chair that the scholar pushed toward him and lighted a cigar.

“Peste!” said Dallard, without looking fully at him. ‘ ‘ A most gloom}- countenanee, my f I'iend. What troubles you?”

Clubin sighed dismally. “I wish that I had not laughed at the story of Anthony Perroe, the ironworker.” he said.

“What do you mean?” Monsieur Dallard asked, sharjily.

“That I have had the same expelaenee, my friend,” said the baker.

“Ma foi! I think you both dream,” the scholar scoffed.

“That is what I told Perroe when he told me his story, but I am ready to apologize now. Let me tell you how it happened. I was abroad last night at a very late houi', toward 1 in the morning, to be exact, and I returned to my hoxise by way of the Kxie St. Antoine. You perhaps kixow where I mean, down by that alley which leads to the darkest dens of the street, a place I would instinctively avoid in the daytime, and would certainly have avoided at night if I had not been in a hurry. Well, Monsieur, just as I passed the throat of that dark alley I noted before me a very old maxi, walking slowly, and the circumstance did not at once impress me ; for, after all, w'hy should not someone else be walking the street at that hour and in that place? Bixt as this old man moved out into a splash of the brilliant moonlight, I noted something that quickened my interest. Monsieur Dallard, this man was not dressed in the modem fashion. I can not describe him to you, for I never saw such clothes, all lace and silk and bows and ruffles, much like the pictures w'hich one sees in the books that you have. I realized that he looked exactly like the unknown man described to us by Monsieur Perroe, and I slowed my pace, half afraid, but interested, nevertheless.

“As wo approached the end of the Rue St. Antoine he slowed his step.

making it compuLsory for me to come up to him. I had some thoxxght of crossing the ixavcmcnt {o the other side, but thought better of it, as I was a little ashamed; so I drew xxp to him. When he heai’d my footsteps he turned and united for me. Upon my joining hinx he bound slightly and iisked me the way to the Place de la llevolxxtion ! ’ ’

“Eh! Ah!” j\Ionsieur Dallai’d exclaimed, “is not that exactly what the same man, or one like him, asked Monsieur PeiToe only last week ? ’ ’

“Exactly. The same qxiestion. And the circximstances wero the same. I looked at him closely, aixd what do yoxx sxxi)i)ose I saw? The red ring around his neck, just as f i'iend Perroe has said. T saw that ring very closely, and what do yoxx think? It cuts into the skin, mxxch as though the head had been exit off at one time and glued back on again!”

“Ila!” ejaculated Monsieur Dallard. “Go on, my friend ! ’ ’

“It was all vei:';^' unusual, so I thought as we stood there. Tlie city was asleep, at that point at least, and the voice of this old man eehoed a tx'ifle loudly. I pointed the way to him, and he thanked me kindly and moved off. It was then that I saw he was not real !”

“Come,” the scholar said, impatiently. “You are di'eaming. Monsieur Clubin.”

“Was Perroe dreaming? I said as much to him. But as this strange old man moved from the darker shadows I saw I’ight through him ! Clearly I saw the lamp post across the street, right through his body, as plainly as I see you now, friend Dallard. Well, this I'emai’kable old man left me and walked x'apidly away, leaving me rxxbbing my eyes iix astonishment.”

“It is very sti’ange,” mxxsed Dallard, after a moment of silence. “Prom anyone else I would not listen to such a storj', but you and Perroe are hoixest men. Yet I find this much difference in jmxxr stories ; Perroe said



it was a yoiing man who stopped him. True, the hour was the same, the question the same, and as you say, the body without substance, yet Ferroe insists that this was a young man, with a fine, aristocratic face and a fierce mustache. What does that signify ? ’ ’

“I do not know,” Clubin shrugged, helplessly. “I have told you what happened, that is all.”

M onsieur eerroe owned a small ironworking shop in the heart of Paris, one of the oldest in the country. It had been handed down from father to son for generations, and Ferroe loved it jealously. He worked at times at the forges and benches and although he was fairly well off, was known as Ferroe, the ironworker. He gloried in the reputation as he gloried in the business itself. To his shop accordingly Avent Monsieur Dallard the scholar bright and early the following day.

He found the ancient doors wide open and a scene of uproar. Two gendarmes talked with Ferroe and a crowd of ragged children hovered about the shop, standing on tiptoe to look inside. When Ferroe had finished talking with the police Monsieur Dallard asked him anxiously what had happened.

“Bah!” said Monsieur Ferroe, angrily. “I have been robbed!”

‘ ‘ Robbed ! ’ ' excl aimed Dallard, knowing that Feri’oe kept no cash at any time in his shop.

“Come inside, away from those who would hear everything,” Ferroe invited. And when the scholar had stepped inside, the ironworker continued, “I have been robbed of that which was more precious to me than gold.”

“What was it, my friend?”

“The ax of the guillotine which sheared off the head of Louis XVI!” the ironworker replied.

“MordieuI” cried Monsieur Dallard, falling back a step. “What do you mean?”

“I mean just that. Perhaps you are not aware that it was in this shop that the ax-blade of the guillotine Avhich stood in the Place de la Revolution, and on which Louis XVI was executed on the 21st of January, 1793, was made. Yes, my friend, it is so. Well, at the time that the Terror came to an end one of my ancestors was in charge of dismantling the famous guillotine upon which so many lost their lives, and he carried the knife back here, where it has lain for more than a century. Last night someone stole that blade.”

“Mon Dieu!” Monsieur Dallard murmured, dazed at being so near an actual relic of the revolution he studied so much about.

“The perplexing part is this; it is not known how they broke in. Not a door or window has been touched. It was only yesterday that I last looked at the Imife, to see if rust was attacking it. It has lain up there in my loft in a packing-case for more than a hundred years, and I watch it closely. This morning I looked again; and it was gone, the packing-case broken open. The police think I am crazy, but I am not,” concluded Monsieur Ferroe, who looked quite Avild, nevertheless.

M onsieur dallard thought much of the theft of the guillotine ax in the days that followed, dropping around to see Ferroe at stated intervals, to learn whether the blade had been recovered, but it had not. Dallard longed for a glimpse of the sharp weapon which had cut off the heads of the fairest and noblest of French chivalry, hoping for an experience which would lend indescribable romance to his life, AArrapped up as it was in the happenings of the past. But he was disappointed, and gradually his visits fell away. Time had almost erased the memory from his mind when a piece from a daily paper revived it.

THE GUILLOTINE CLUB


Sitting in his study before the fire Monsieur Dallard read the following with more than unusual interest ;

Tliievea, showing onco more an amazing interest in things of the remote past, have again turned their hands to affairs relating to the Terror and the Eevolution. Monsieur Dumont, who keeps the extensive and ancient lumberyards in the Hue Paysanne, reports the theft last night of two upright pieces of wood and a crossbeam, said by him to be the actual pieces of the guillotine which stood in the Place de la Tlevolution, formerly the Place Louis Quinze, where King Louis the XVT was executed by the republicans under General Santerre on January 2l8t, year 1793. This remarkable theft, coming as it does after a similar affair at the iron-shop of Monsieur Ferroe, at which time the blade of the same guillotine was stolen, baffles the police. Two witnesses have testified that late last night they saw two men going down the old Rue St. Antoine with these timbers on their shoulder.s.

Considerable interest has been awakened by these two amazing thefts, and speculation Las been heightened by the fact that the men bearing the timbers of the historic guyiotine were dressed in costumes unknown to the present day, being so odd that the witnesses were unable to describe them at all. It is thought in some quarters that they have been carried away to be sold to foreign collectors.

After many hours of deep thought Monsieur Dallard the scholar came to a decision. With the knowledge of the two men who had asked the way to the Place de la Eevolution in his mind he was far from thinking that common thieves had stolen the parts of the historic guillotine. Monsieur Dallard looked below the surface of things at all times, and he was convinced that there was depth to this affair. Accordingly, he began to leave the house late at night, to return hungry and disappointed in the morning. His landlady tried hard to find the key to his movements, but failed.

The truth of the matter was that Monsieur Dallard, wrapped in his overcoat, patrolled the streets night after night without avail. From one end of Paris to the other he walked, looking for something which he could not name, but which lured him on, nevertheless. Most of his wanderings

led him down tlie dark well that was the Rue St. Antoine, that den from which a frenzied twenty-five million poor of France got the impetus to send them at the throats of the aristocracy. He was familiar with the street from his studies of histoiy, and the dens were well knovni to iiim. But one liou.se in the narTOwest rut of the street which had been transformed under Napoleon was unknown to him.

He found himself regarding it musingly. It was oft’ the main street, in a blind alley, a little, sipiat house with darkened and shuttered windows, surrounded by a low wall that was smothei-ed by a black vine wliich weaved and twisted its way over it like some horrible mon.stor. In the daytime this house was forbidding enough, and at night it was repulsive to the last degree. It was the .source of the corruption and rot which had at one time dominated the entire section, and the scholar found a jiaitieular fascination in it. Apin-oaching an old inhabitant of the district late one winter afternoon the scholar inquired concerning the house.

“It is the Plotters’ House,” the old man said, after studying him for a moment through bloodshot eyes.

“What do you mean, my friend?”

The old man explained readily. ' ‘ At the time of the Terror a group of aristocrats, seeking to escape by hiding in the very neighborhood of those who sought to tear them to pieces, lived in that house and hatched plots against the republican government. At the time that Louis and Marie Antoinette were imprisoned the plotters met there to formulate plans to deliver them. In time they were taken, and all perished on the guillotine in the Place de la Greve. Since then, no one has lived in the house, for it is haunted.”

“Come, my friend, ’ ’ coaxed Dallard. “This is a modern day; we laugh at ghosts. Y ou rom ance, surcl y. ”

The old man looked fixedly at him for a moment and then turned away. “Listen some day at the doors or the



windows, my friond, and yon will hear sobbing that will break your heart,” he said, and so was gone.

After that Dallard found the Plotters’ House a place of fascination. For hours he roamed thei'e, watching the house and wondering. The inhabitants of the street thought him crazy and mothers kept a wary eye on their children. But the man who paced the street had eyes for nothing but the house which squatted inside of its wall as though defying the feeble efforts of men to penetrate its secrets.

I T WAS the night of the 21st of Januaiy when Dallard took his last walk do^vn the Rue St. Antoine. He had begun to weary of his nightly excursions, the more so as they had l)roved fruitless exeei)t in the matter of the house which was such a find to him, but by this time he knew' its outward appearance so well that he could do without seeing it for some time to come. He approached the house to look at it for the last time, and the fact that it was near 2 o’clock in the morning did not occur to him. He approached the im-sty iron gate that opened like a grinning mouth in the w'all and looked in.

The place was wrapped in intense darkness, but a film of light shone from under the front door. Surprize gripped him. He had been given to understand that the house was empty : what, then, w'as a light doing in the house? He leaned a little too heavily on the gate in order to see more clearly, ajid it swung back. This was stranger yet, for at other times he had failed to budge it. He pushed his way j)ast it and walked up the uneven .stones, his heart beating rapidly wdth excitement and a certain fear.

The porch was scarce a foot above the weedy yard, and he stepped carefully upon it. As he approached the door he was oppressed by a sense of evil, a feeling of something wrong and out of place. The impression lingered

in his jnind that in crossing the small yard he had crossed the yeare to the fearful days of the Terror, when suspicion and murder stalked the country. And as the scholar drew near to the door a sound reached him that chilled his blood.

It was the sound of terrible sobbing !

All the sobs that human beings ever uttered might have been there in that house that night as he listened, too terror-stricken to move. Soft, almost silent, in volume, it reached him, that terrible, shuddering sound of suffering that unnerved the body and numbed the brain. Outside of that there was no sound: even the wind was quiet, the stiff branches of a few ghostly trees standing erect and mute in the front yard. St. Antoine was silent as the grave, and except for the sobbing there might have been no living soul in the world, for Monsieur DaUard was now not quite sure that he was alive.

Suddenly the sobbing ceased, leaving the world as silent as a tomb. There was no movement or sound inside the Plotters’ House. Driven to his wits’ end, imdecided as to whether to run away or to seek further, the scholar leaned weakly against the thick front door.

It opened without a sound, throwing him into a single room.

Wliite with terror the scholar jumped from his knees where he had landed and looked around. He was in a low, vaulted room of some width and length, and he was by no means alone. The strangest company in the world was assembled, w'atehing him mutely, a medley of different expressions on their faces. Leaning against the wall the scholar looked at them attentively.

A score of men and as many women stood back of a long table looking at him, and such men and such women! Spectral, every one of them, for he saw objects back of them easily, as lMon.sieur Clubin had seen through the old man of the Rue St. Antoine, but life unmistakable in their burning

THE GUILLOTINE CLUB


eyes. Dressed in silks and satins, in knee-breeches and flowing gowns, the men and women were plainly aristocrats, living or dead. With a thrill Dallard noted one characteristic that made them all kin : Each shadow had a red ring around his or her neck !

Three-score candles burned on the table, but the candles were spectral, too. They gave light, but there was no substance to them. No candlegrease fell from them and no breath disturbed their flame. Prom the candles Dallard shifted his eyes to the company, to find that the men all held their hands on the hilts of their swords and that the women were silently crowded together.

One of the men, a tall individual with a tumed-up mustache, turned to the man at the door, the one who had opened it so suddenly, causing Dallard to fall in.

“Count Caglio.stro, who is this man ? ’ ’

The count, whom Dallard recognized from his study of history as the ai'ch-quack of pre-Kevolution history, bowed slightly and gracefully.

“My Lord Charolois, this is Monsieur Dallard, a scholar of the Hue Vendome. He has written a historj" of the revolution, in which he loudly defends the nobility of old France. That makes him our friend indeed, and if I could prevail upon your lordship to admit this one human being to our yearly meeting, I should be most happy.”

Charolois shrugged his shoulders. “Since he is our friend, I care little. The rapid changes which sweep over our city may soon wipe out this meeting-place, so I do not greatly care. See you to it. Count.”

Count Cagliostro bowed again, and the others, losing their interest in the newcomer in the pressure of whatever business had brought them back from the spirit world, seemed to forget him. Cagliostro, on the contrary, moved nearer the scholar and engaged him in conversation.

“No doubt you are greatly surprized to find yourself in such company, Mon.sieur Dallard?”

Dallard made him a statel}'^ bow. “I am delighted, my lord. Who are these people ? ’ ’

“This is the Guillotine Club,” the notorious count explained. “A society of spirits murdered during the Eeign of Terror. I am admitted because of my connection with it in prophecy. You will recall that I eloquently prophesied the Eevolution.”

“I recall your prophecy well,” the scholar said, now more at his ease. “But tell me, is that man who spoke to you the infamous Charolois who went about the country shooting slaters and ])lumbers from off of roofs just for the pleasure of it ? ”

Cagliostro placed a hand lightly on his arm. “Softly, friend Dallard! Be careful of the use of that word ‘infamous’! Yes, that is Charolois. You sec wiio is sitting beside him? That is Queen Marie Antoinette, and to his left is Louis XVI. All of them have been guillotined, as you may see from the red ring about the neck. Look down the board. You note the lady with the lofty bearing and the retl mark on her cheek ? That is Charlotte Corday, who slew' the terrible Marat in his bath, saving scores of lives by doing so. That red spot is the place where the brutal executioner struck her when he held the head up for the people after it had fallen into the basket. And that lady wdth the snowwhite hair is the lady mai’echale who exclaimed eoneeming the Count d ’Artois, ‘Depend iipon it, sir, God will think twice before damning a man of that quality.’ The others are of less importance — Mirabeau, the traitor Phillipe and others.”

C OUNT CHAROLOIS had risen by now and a hush fell over the assembled spirit. The shadow of the roof-sniper addressed them.

“Brothers and sisters of the Guil126


lotine Club, conlederation of death,” he said solemnly, “we are here once more in this most worthy house to transact the business which engages our attention yearly. On this, our anniversary of the damnable murder of King Louis, we consider briefly those matters of business which concern this eternal association.” Picking up a list he scanned it rapidly and then went on: “It has been your pleasure to nominate me chairman. First in order of business is the election of president of the Guillotine Club.”

There was a bustle and a stir, and under cover of it Dallard whispered to the count, “How is it that Mirabeau is a member? He was never guillotined.”

“His sympathy and gallantly toward the queen make him a member,” Cagliostro replied.

King Louis XVI arose and addressed the gathering; “Mr. Chairman and comrades. It has been your pleasure to make me president in years past, but I must decline with thmiks on the present occasion. It is my thought that wc have with us one more worthy to lead our distinguished club than myself. I am referring to Louis Pelletier, the highwayman, the first man ever to go to his death imder the guillotine. Most of you will recall that Monsieur Pelletier was executed in the Place de la Greve on April 25th, 1792. Under the circumstances, I feel sure that Monsieur Pelletier is more worthy the office than I am. ’ '

Pelletier arose and bowed. He was a short, swarthy man with the look of a villain. The red ring around his neck seemed to be of a deeper red than the others, the scholar noticed. He was voted into office and the meeting went on.

“We will pass over the much disputed question that comes up yearly,” the infamous chairman went on. “I mean the question as to whether Charlotte Corday was struck on the face

by the executioner or if the eternal red mark came from the rough bottom of the basket when the head hit it. In my own case, I i-ecall very distinctly that the bottom of the basket which I faced as the knife sheared my head off looked to be exceedingly rough. But we’ll let that pass for now. There is the matter of the puce coat of King Louis.”

“Question, Monsieur,” interrupted Pelletier.

The chairman bowed to him. “It seems that after our king — God bless him ! — ^was guillotined, the rabble took his puce coat and tore it to shreds. Most of the material has perished, but to this day there are two or three finger rings in existence in Prance with King Louis’ puce coat fragments in it. We must locate and confiscate these rings. With this in mind I delegate Count Cagliostro and Philippe figalite to investigate and report on it definitely at the next meeting, one year from tonight.”

The two delegates bowed. The chairman went on : “ Now for the pressing business of the evening. Each year we kill in some manner or other a descendant of the man who sent us to the guillotine. By heart attacks and loathsome maladies which we bring up from the pit of death with us, each year we rid the world of an offspring of the rabble that murdered ns. Tonight we have on our list the name of Anthony Perroe, direct descendant of the man who made the blade of the guillotine of the Rue de la Revolution ! ’ ’

Dallard started at hearing his friend’s name. The company showed the liveliest signs of interest and pleasure.

“By what means. Monsieur Chairman?” Marie Antoinette inquired.

“We have been exceedingly fortunate in securing from tlie shop of Monsieur Perroe the ax of the guillotine itself, and from a local lumberyard the timbers of the original maTHE UUILLOTIN'E CLUB


chine. I regret to say, however, that the basket into which our heads fell could not be found. Apparently it has been burned up. But we can do without it. Listen!”

A hush fell over the ghastly company, and above it could be heard the hammering of timbers. Charolois turned to the company again.

“They are putting up the guillotine now. It mil be our pleasure in a few minutes to stand by and watch this Perroe die under the ax as we died.” Reaching forward he touched a tiny gold bell which rested on the table before him. ‘ ‘ Bring in the prisoner,” he said, as two lackeys appeared at a back door.

While they waited for the prisoner conversation ran high. The assembly seemed enchanted by the coming spectacle.

A M(>MEifT later Anthony Ferroe was led in, his arms tightly bound. He did not see Dallard, but was marched to the table and fsueed the count.

“Monsieur Perroe,” said the murderous count, solemnly, “you have been informed as to w^y you are to die. Have you any request to make of this company before you die ? ’ ’

- Ferroe, his eyes bulging with amazement, but calm notwithstanding, only shook hie head. The chairman continued: “It gives us great pleasure to do this. Within a sufficient number of years we shall have wiped out the descendants of oxir murderers, and tlien our task will be complete. Remove the prisoner to the guillotine!”

Scholar Dallard sprang forward. In a loud voice he cried: “Wait! Anthony Ferroe is my friend, and he must not go to the guillotine!”

Charolois looked balefully at Cagliostro. ^'Upon your head be this. Count Cagliostro!”

Perroe had recognized his friend and sprang toward him. Side by side they faced the ghostly company. Daliard stripped off the ironworker'.s bonds.

“Monsieur Perroe leaves this house with me at once,” he said, quietly.

With a single movement the men rose aud placed hands on swords. The ladies moved back, making room.

President Pelletier strode forward “Arrest both of these men. They both die on the guillotine at once,” the higliwajTnan announced.

Cagliostro had moved away from Dallard and took his stand with tiie men of the Guillotme Club. Perroe, now' Slue of himself, swung his heavy fists.

“We’ll see who goes to the guillotine,” he roared.

Louis XVI drew' his sword. “We can’t waste time. Dawn is near. At them, gentlemen.”

A small forest of swords w'as leveled at them and the men of the guillotine bore down on the tw'O modems. They had no arms and turned to flee, but Cagliostro had tuyned the key before joinmg the others. They found themselves forced apart, and their ease des-perate.

A multitude of small cuts fmddenly appeared on Dallard as the .sharp swords of the nobles cut him. Ferroe had sueweded in wrrapping his ma.ssive arms around most of the weapons which were aimed at him. Out of the comer of his eye, even in his agony, Dallard saw Charlotte Corday unsheath her dagger, the same one with which she had killed Citizen Marat.

“Hark!” thundered Mirabeau, suddenly.

A bell rang out on the streets outside. Orders were given and someone pomided on the door.

“The gendarmes. Messieurs,” panted Cagliostro, the prophet. “Vanish, all!”

“After a final thrust,” biased Pelletier. “That for treachery, sir scholar!*’ And lie ran his sw'ord through Monsieur Dallard.



T he papers carried this account of the affair in the Rue St. Antoine on the following day :

When the police, having been notified by neighbors that something strange was going on in the old house on the alley off the Rue St. Antoine, known to history as the Plotters’ House, burst into the place they found it empty except for Monsieur Louis Dallard, a scholar of the Rue VendOme, and Monsieur Anthony Ferroe, owner of the iron foundry of that name. The house was empty of furniture except for a long table.

Monsieur Dallard had just expired from a wound, presumably inflicted by a knife, and Monsieur Ferroe was exhausted. The story that Monsieur Ferroe told was so wild and incredible that he will be held for examination as soon as possible. It is supposed that the two men were set upon by some bandits and severely used before the police arrived.

But the most remarkable circumstance of all is the fact that a complete guillotine, said by experts to be the very one which stood in the Place de la Revolution during the Terror, was found assembled in the rear yard of the Plotters’ House. It will be taken down today and placed in the custody of the police. Plotters’ House will be razed at once and a new structure erected on its site.

Small wonder was expressed today by the neighbors of Monsieur Dallard, who said that long study and erratic habits, one of which was constant night-wandering, had apparently broken his health mentally and taken him often to the house and to business which, judging by Monsieur Ferroe’s peculiar mental state, will ever remain a profound mystery.

The White Old Maid

By NATHANIEL HAWTHORNE

T he moonbeams came through two deep and narrow windows and showed a spacious chamber richly furnished in an antique fashion. From one lattice the shadow of the diamond panes was thrown upon the floor ; the ghostly light through the other slept upon a bed, falling between the heavy silken curtains and illuminating the face of a young man. But how quietly the slumberer lay ! how pale his features ! And how like a shroud the sheet was

wound about his frame ! Yes, it was a corpse in its burial-clothes.

Suddenly the flxed features seemed to move with dark emotion. Strange fantasy! It was but the shadow of the fringed curtain waving betwixt the dead face and the moonlight as the door of the chamber opened and a girl stole softly to the bedside. Was there delusion in the moonbeams, or did her gesture and her eye betray a gleam of triumph as she bent over the pale eorpse, pale as itself, and

THE WHITE OLD MAID


pressed her living lips to the cold ones of the dead? As she drew back from that long kiss her features writhed as if a proud heart were fighting with its anguish. Again it seemed that the features of the corpse had moved responsive to her own. Still an illusion. The silken curtains had waved a second time between the dead face and the moonlight as another fair yoTing girl unclosed the door and glided to the bedside. There the two maidens stood, both beautiful, with tlie pale beauty of the dead between them. But she who had first entered was proud and stately, and the other a soft and fragile thing.

“Aw'ay!” cried the lofty one. “Thou hadst him living; the dead is mine.”

“Thine!” returned the other, shuddering. “Well hast thou spoken; the dead is thine.”

The proud girl started and stared into her face with a ghastly look, but a wild and mournful expression passed across the features of the gentle one, and, weak and helpless, she sank down on the bed, her head pillowed beside that of the corpse and her hair mingling with his dark locks. A creature of hope and joy, the first draft of sorrow had bewildered her.

‘ ‘ Edith ! ’ ’ ci’ied her rival.

Edith groaned as with sudden compassion of the heart, and, removing her cheek from the dead youth’s pillow, she stood upright, fearfully encountering the eyes of the lofty girl.

“Wilt thou betray me?” said the latter, calmly.

“Till the dead bid me speak I will be silent,” answered Edith. “Leave us alone together. Go and live many years, and then return and tell me of thy life. He too will be here. Then, if thou tellest of sufferings more than death, we will both forgive thee.”

“And what shall be the token?” asked the proud girl, as if her heart acknowledged a meaning in these wild words.

, “This lock of hair,” said Edith.

lifting one of the dark clustering curls that lay heavily on the dead man’s brow.

The two maidens joined their hands over the bosom of the corpse and appointed a day and hour far, far in time to come for their next meeting in that chamber. The statelier girl gave one deep look at the motionless countenance and departed, yet turned again and trembled ere she clo.sed the door, almost believing that her dead lover frovaied upon hci'. And Edith, too! Was not her white form fading into the moonlight? Scorning her own weakness, she went forth and perceived that a negro slave was waiting in the passage with a waxlight, which he held between her face and his owir and regarded her, as she thought, with an ugly expression of merriment. Lifting his torch on high, the .slave lighted her domi the staircase and undid the portal of the mansion. The young clergjunan of the town had jiist ascended the steps, and, bowing to the lady, passed in without a word.

Y ears — many years — rolled on, The world seemed new again, so much older was it grown since the night when those pale girls Iiad clasped their hands across the bosom of the corpse. In the interval a lonely woman had passed from youth to extreme age, and was known by all the town as the “Old Maid in the WindingSheet.” A taint of insanity had affected her whole life, but so quiet, sad and gentle, so utterly free from violence, that she was suffered to pursue her harmless fantasies immolested by the world with whose business or pleasures she had naught to do. She dwelt alone, and never came into the daylight except to follow funerals. Whenever a corpse was borne along the street, in sunshine, rain or snow, whether a pomi)ous train of the rich and proud thronged after it, or few and humble were the mourners, behind them came the lonely woman in a long white garment which the peo130


pie called her shroud. She took no place among the kindred or the friends, but stood at the door to hear the funeral prayer, and walked in the rear of the procession as one whose earthly charge it was to haunt the house of mourning and be the shadow of affliction and see that the dead were duly buried. So long had this been her custom that the inhabitants of the town deemed her a part of every funeral, as much as the coffinpall or the very corpse itself, and aiTgured ill of the sinner’s destiny unless the Old Maid in the WindingSheet came gliding like a ghost behind. Once, it is said, she affrighted a bridal-party with her pale presence, appearing suddenly in the illuminated hall just as the priest was uniting a false maid to a wealthy man before her lover had been dead a year. Evil was the omen to that marriage. Sometimes she stole forth by moonlight aUd visited the graves of venerable integrity and wedded love and virgin innocence, and evexy spot where the ashes of a kind and faithful heaiff were moldei’ing. Over the hillocks of those favored dead would she stretch out her arms with a gesture as if slie wei’e scattering seeds, and many believed that she brought them from the garden of Paradise, for the graves which .she had visited wei’e gi’een beneath the snow and covei’ed with sweet flowers from April to Novembei’. Her blessing was better than a holy vei'se upon the tombstone. Thus wore away her long, sad, peaceful and fantastic life till few were so old as she, and the people of later generations wondered how the dead had ever been buried or moui’iiers had endured their grief without the Old Maid in the Winding-Sheet. Still years went on, and still she followed funerals and was not yet summoned to her owui festival of death.

One afternoon the great street of the town was all alive with business and bustle, though the sun now gilded only the upper half of the churchspire, having left the house-tops and loftiest ti-ees in shadow. The scene was cheerful and animated in spite of the somber shade between the high brick buildings. Here were pompous merchants in white wigs and laced velvet, the bronzed faces of sea-captains, the foreign garb and air of Spanish creoles, and the disdainful poi’t of natives of Old England, all contrasted with the rough aspect of one or two back-settlers negotiating sales of timber from forests where ax had never soiuided. Sometimes a lady passed, swelling roundly forth in an embi’oidei’ed petticoat, balancing her .steps in high-heeled shoes and curt- .sying with lofty grace to the punctilious obeisances of the gentlemen. The life of the town seemed to have its vei’y center not far from an old mansion that stood somewhat back from the pavement, sixrrounded by neglected grass, with a strange air of loneliness I’atlier deepened than dispelled by the throng so near it. Its site would have been suitably occupied by a magixificent Exchange or a brick block lettered all over with various signs, or the large house itself might have made a noble tavern with the “King’s Arms’’ SAvinging before it and guests in every chamber, instead of the , present solitude. But, owing to some dispute about the right of inheritance, the mansion had been long without a tenant, ‘decaying from year to year and throwing the stately gloom of its shadoAv over the busiest ])ai’t of the tOAni.

Such was the scene, and such the time, Avhen a figure unlike any that have been described was observed at a distance doAvn the street.

“I spy a strange sail yondei’,” remarked a Livei-pool captain — “that Avoman in the long white garment.”

The sailors seemed much struck by the object, as were several others Avho at the same moment caught a glimpse of the figure that had attracted his notice. Almost immediately the varioxxs topics of conA'^ersation gave place

THE WHITE OLD MAID


to speculations in an undertone on this unwonted occurrence.

“Can there be a funeral so late this afternoon?” inquired some.

They looked for the signs of death at every door — the sexton, the hearse, the assemblage of black-clad relatives, all that makes up the woful pomp of funerals. They raised their eyes, also, to the sun-gilt spire of the church, and wondered that no clang proceeded from its bell, which had always tolled till now when this figure appeared in the light of day. But none had heard that a corpse was to be borne to its home that afternoon, nor was there any token of a funeral except the apparition of the Old Maid in the Winding-Sheet.

“What may this portend?” asked each man of his neighbor.

All smiled as they put the question, yet with a certain trouble in their eyes, as if pestilence, or some other wide calamity, were prognosticated by the untimely intrusion among the living of one whose presence had always been associated with death and wo. What a comet is to the earth was that sad woman to the town. Still she moved on, while the hum of surprize was hushed at her approach, and the proud and the humble stood aside that her white garment might not wave against them. It was a long, loose robe of spotless purity. Its wearer appeared very old, pale, emaciated and feeble, yet glided onward without the unsteady pace of extreme age. At one point of her course a rosy little boy burst forth from a door and ran with open arms toward the ghostly woman, seeming to expect a kiss from her bloodless lips. She made a slight pause, fixing her eye upon him with an expression of no earthly sweetness, so that the child shivered and stood awestruck rather than affrighted while the Old Maid passed on. Perhaps her garment might have been polluted even by an infant’s touch; peidiaps her kiss would have been death to the sweet boy within the year.

“She is but a shadow,” whispered the superstitious. “The child put forth his arms and could not grasp her robe.”

The wonder was increased when the Old Maid passed beneath the porch of the deserted mansion, ascended the moss-covered steps, lifted the iron knocker and gave three raps. The people could only conjecture that some old remembrance, troubling her bewildered brain, had impelled the poor woman hither to visit the friends of her youth — all gone from their home long since, and forever, unless their ghosts still hamited it, fit company for the Old* Maid in the Winding-Sheet.

An elderly man approached the steps, and, reverently uncovering his gray locks, essayed to explain the matter.

“None, madam,” said he, “have dwelt in this house these fifteen years agone — ^no, not since the death of old Colonel Fenwicke, whose funeral you may remember to have followed. His heirs, being ill-agreed among themselves, have let the mansion-house go to ruin.”

The Old Maid looked slowly round with a slight gesture of one hand and a finger of the other upon her lip, appearing more shadowlike than ever in the obscurity of the porch. But again die lifted the hammer, and gave, this time, a single rap. Could it be tliat a footstep was now heard coming down the staircase of the old mansion which all eoftceived to have been so long untenanted? Slowly, feebly, yet heavily, like the pace of an aged and infirm person, the step approached, more distinct on every downward stair, till it reached the portal. The bar fell on the inside ; the door was opened. One upward glance toward the church-spire, whence the sunshine had just faded, was the last that the people saw of the Old Maid in the Winding-Sheet.

“Who undid the door?” asked many.



This question, owing to the depth of shadow beneath the porch, no one could satisfactorily answer. Two or three aged men, while protesting against an inference which might be drawn, affirmed that the person within was a negro, and bore a singular resemblance to Old Caesar, formerly a slave in the house, but freed by death some thirty years before.

“Her summons has waked up a servant of the old family,” said one, half seriously.

“Let us wait here,” replied another; “more guests will knock at the door anon. But the gate of the graveyard should be thrown open.”

'^wiLiGHT had overspread the town before the crowd began to separate, or the comments on this incident were exhausted. One after another was wending his way homeward, when a coach — ^no common spectacle in those days — drove slowly into the street. It was an old-fashioned equipage, hanging close to the ground, with arms on the panels, a footman beliind, and a grave, corjmlent coachman seated high in front, the whole giving an idea of solemn state and dignity. There was something awful in the heavy rumbling of the wheels.

The coach rolled down the street, till, coming to the gateway of the deseiled mansion, it drew up, and the footman sprang to the ground.

“Whose grand coach is this?” asked a very inquisitive body.

The footman made no reply, but ascended the steps of the old house, gave three taps with the iron hammer, and returned to open the coach door? An old man possessed of the heraldic lore so common in that day examined the shield of arms on the panel.

“Azure, a lion’s head erased, between three flowers de luce,” said he, then whispered the name of the family to whom these bearings belonged. The last inheritor of its honors was recently dead, after a long residence

amid the splendor of the British court, where his birth and wealth had given him no mean station. “He left no child,” continued the herald, “and these arms, being in a lozenge, betoken that the coach appertains to his widow.”

Further disclosures, perhaps, might have been made had not the speaker been suddenly struck dumb by the stem eye of an ancient lady who thrust forth her head from the coach, ))reparing to descend. As she emerged the people saw that her dress was magnificent, and her figure dignified in spite of age and infirmity — a stately ruin, but with a look at once of pride and wretchedness. Her strong and rigid features had an awe about them unlike that of the white Old Maid, but as of something evil. She passed up the steps, leaning on a goldheaded cane. The door swung open as she ascended, and the light of a torch glittered on the embroidery of her dress and gleamed on the pillars of the porch. After a momentary pause, a glance backward and then a desperate effort, she went in.

The decipherer of the eoat-of-arms had ventured up the lower step, and, shrinking back immediately, pale and tremulous, affirmed that the torch was held by the very image of Old Caesar.

“But such a hideous grin,” added he, “was never seen on the face of mortal man, black or white. It will haunt me till my dying day.”

Meantime, the coach had wheeled round with a prodigious clatter on the pavement and rumbled up the street, disappearing in the twilight, while the ear still tracked its course. Scarcely was it gone when the people began to question whether the coach and attendants, the ancient lady, the specter of Old Caesar and the Old Maid herself were not all a strangely combined delusion with some dark purport in its mystery. The whole town was astir, so that, instead of .dispersing, the crowd continually inTHE WHITE OLD MAID


creased, and stood gazing up at the windows of the mansion, now silvered by the brightening moon. Tlie elders, glad to indulge the narrative propensity of age, told of the long-faded .sj)lendor of the family, the entertainments thej^ had given, and the guests, the greatest of the land, and even titled and noble ones from abroad, who had pa&sed beneath that portal. These graphic reminiscences seemed to call up the ghosts of those to whom they referred. So strong was the impression on some of the more imaginative hearers that two or three were seized with trembling fits at one and the same moment, protesting that they had distinctly heard three other raps of the iron Imocker.

‘ ‘ Impossible ! ’ ’ exclaimed others. “See! The moon shines beneath the porch, and shows every part of it except in the narrow shade of that pillar. There is no one there. ”

“Did not the door open?’’ whispered one of these fanciful persons.

“Didst thou see it too?’’ said his companion, in a startled tone.

But the general sentiment was opposed to the idea that a third visitant had made application at the door of the deserted house. A few, however, adhered to this new marvel, and even declared that a red gleam like that of a torch had shone through the great front window, as if the negro were lighting a guest up the staircase. This, too, was pronounced a mere fantasy.

But at once the whole multitude started, and each man beheld his own terror painted in the faces of all the rest.

“What an awful thing is this!” cried they.

A shriek, too fearfully distinct for doubt, had been heard within the mansion, breaking forth suddenly and succeeded by a deep stillness, as if a heart had burst in giving it utterance. The people knew not whether to fly from the very sight of the house or to rush trembling in and search

out the strange mystery. Amid their confusion and affright they were somewhat reassux’cd by the appearance of their clergyman, a venerable patriarch, and equally a saint, who had taught them and tiieir fathers the way to heaven for more than the space of an ordinary lifetime. He wfjs a reverend figure with long white hair upon his shoulders, a white beard upon his breast, and a back so bent over his staff that he seemed to be looking downward continually, as if to choose a proper grave for his w'cary frame. It was some time before the good old man, being deaf and of impaired intellect, could be made to comprehend sxich portions of the affair as were comprehensible at all. But when possessed of the facts, his energies a.ssumed unexpected vigor.

“Verily,” said the old gentleman, “it will be fitting that I enter the mansion-house of the worthy Colonel Fenwickc, lest any harm sliould have befallen that true Christian woman whom ye call the ‘Old Maid in the Winding-Sheet.’ ”

Behold, then, the venerable clergyman ascending the steps of the mansion with a torch-bearer behind him. It was the elderly man who had spoken to the Old Maid, and the same who had afterward explained the shield of arms and recognized the features of the negro. Like their predecessors, they gave three raps with the iron hammer.

“Old Caesar cometh not,” observed the priest. “Well, I wot he no longer doth service in this mansion.”

“Assuredly, then, it was something worse in Old Caeesar’s likeness,” said the other adventurer.

“Be it as Ood wills,” answered the olergyman. “See! my strength, though it be much decayed, hath sufficed to open this heavy door. Let us enter and pass up the staircase.”

Here occurred a singular exemplification of the dreamy state of a very old man’s mind. As they ascended



the. wide flight of Stairs the aged clergyman appeared to move with caution, occasionally standing aside, and oftener bending his head, as it were in salutation, thus practising all the gestures of one who makes his way through a throng. Reaching the head of the staircase, he looked around with sad and soleimi benignity, laid aside his staff, bared his hoary locks, and was evidently on the I)oint of commencing a prayer.

“Reverend sir,” said his attendant, who conceived this a very suitable prelude to their further search, “would it not be well that the people join with us in prayer?”

“Well-a-day !” cried the old clergyman, staring strangely around him. “Art thou here with me, and none other? Verily, past times were present to me, and I deemed that I was to make a funeral prayer, as many a time heretofore, from the head of this staircase. Of a truth, I saw the shades of many that are gone. Yea, I have prayed at their burials, one after another, and the Old Maid in the Winding-Sheet hath seen them to their graves.”

Being now more thoroughly awake to their present purpose, he took his staff and struck forcibly on the floor, till there came an echo from each deserted chamber, but no menial to answer their summons. They, therefore, walked along the passage, and again paused, opposite to the great front window, through which was seen the crowd in the shadow and partial moonlight of the street beneath. On the right hand was the open door of a chamber, and a closed one on their left.

The clergyman pointed his cane to the carved oak panel of the latter.

“Within that chamber,” observed he, “a whole lifetime since, did I sit by the death-bed of a goodly young man who, being now at the last gasp ”

Apparently there was some powerful excitement in the ideas which had now flashed across his mind. He snatched the torch from his companion’s hand, and threw open the door with such sudden violence that the flame was extinguished, leaving them no other light than the moonbeams which fell through two windows into the spacious chamber. It was sufficient to discover all that could be Icnown. In a high-backed oaken armchair, upright, with her hands clasped across her breast and her head thrown back, sat the Old Maid in the Winding-Sheet. The stately dame had fallen on her knees with her forehead on the holy knees of the Old Maid, one hand upon the floor and the other pressed convulsively against her heart. It clutched a lock of hair — once sable, now discolored with a gi*eenish mold.

As the priest and layman advanced into the chamber the Old Maid’s features assumed such a semblance of shifting expression that they trusted to hear the whole mystery explained by a single word. But it was only the shadow of a tattered curtain waving betwixt the dead face and the moonlight.

“Both dead!” said the venerable man. “Then who shall divulge the secret? Methinks it glimmers to and fro in my mind like the light and shadow across the Old Maid’s face. And now ’tis gone!”

K

^RE you a redblooded, dar- “■ing he-man? Are you eager for a life of constant thrills, constant excitement and fascinating events? Do you crave adventure, popularity, admiration, and the applause of great crowds ? Then why not get into the Aviation Industry — the greatest adventure since time began — the greatest thrill ever offered to man ?

Think what Aviation offers you.

Thrills such as you never had before! The praise and plaudits of the multitude. And a chance to get in on the ground floor where rewards will be unlimited !

Aviation is growing so swiftly that one can hardly keep track of all the astonishing new developments. Air-mail routes have just been extended to form a vast aerial network over the entire U. S. Airlines and airplane factories are springing up ail over the country.

Men like Henry Ford are investing Millions in the future of commercial Aeronautics in America! The possibilities are so tremendous that th^ stagger imagination !

Everything is set for the greatest boom in liistory. The fortunes that came out of the automobile

Airplane

Airplane

Airplane

Airplane

PICK YOUR JOB!

Flying '

Instructor engineer Bepairman Assembler Airplane Mechanician Airplane Inspector Airplane Boilder Airplane Salesman Exhibition Manager

Airidnne Contractor

Airplane Motor Xixpert Airplane De^gner

riON!

Easy to Become An Aviation Expert

Get into this thrilling profession at once while the field is new and uncrowded. Now — by a unique new plan — you, can quickly secure the basic training for one of these wonderful high salaried jobs, at home, in spare time. Experts will teach you the secrets — give you all the Inside facts that are essential to your success. And. the study of Aviation is almost as fascinating as the actual work itself. Every Lesson is chock-full of interest — and so absorbing that you actually forget you are studring. But best of all are the ultimate rewards you are fitting yourself to gain t

Send for FREE Book

Send the coupon for our new, free book, just out — Opportunities in the Airplane Industry, It is vitally interesting, reads like a romance and tells you ~ things about this astonishing profession you never even dreamed of. This book Is so fascinating It could easily sell for a dollar. Wo offer a limited number FltEE. Write for youra today.

AmericanScliooIof Aviation

Oept.Z4S-B,3601 Micliigu AT..,Chici,o,UI

industry and out of motion pictures will be nothing compared to the fortunes that will come out of Aviation ! There is just one thing holding it up: — lack of trained men! Even in the beginning thousands will be needed — and generously paid. The opportunities open to them cannot be over-estimated. Those who qualify quickly will find themselves on the road to undreamed of money — success — popuJarHsgrfBd-prqmia^Voel. v,;

AMERICAN SCHOOL OF AVIATION, Dept.245-B. 3601 Michigan Avc., Chicago, 111.'

Without any obligation please send me FBEB book Oppertunitieg in the Airplane Induetry, Also Information about your course in Practical Aeronautloe.

I Nama * Age.. -

I Address

iv4llty ^ - ■ ,r aut». ■■ ■ I ■-

Kindly mention this magazine when answering advertisements



The Eyrie

( Continued from page 6)

sure it is not he, after all, who is the very first-rankest one of all, much as I admire Lovecraft and now and then one or two others. ’ ’

From Huntington Park, California, writes Barbara Ross in a letter to the Eyrie: “Having read your really unique magazine since 1923, I feel that it is about time that I w'rote to you, this being my first letter, to tell you how much I enjoy your magazine. When I began to read it I was only sixteen. I was staying with a girl friend of mine at the time, and her husband happened to bring a copy home. They w'ent out that night, and I thought I ’d have a peaceful evening alone, reading. Well, the evening was not peaceful and I wasn ’t alone, but I enjoyed it nevertheless. I never will forget how scared I was, so* much so that I couldn’t get up to turn off the light, just had to sit there and wait till my friends came home. That was some night! Since then I just simply can’t do without Weird Tales at all — I just wait for the first of each month to hurry and come around. My favorite character is Jules de Grandin — don’t ever stop letting us hear about him. I have followed him from the very beginning — when he first meets Trowbridge, you know — and I feel that he is ‘my very good friend.’ So keep him with us, please.”

Readers, what is your favorite story in this issue? The most popular stories in the May issue, as sho^vn by your votes, were Edmond Hamilton’s interstellar epic. Within the Nebula, and Bertram Russell’s tale of a doom from the animal kingdom menacing the world. The Scourge of B’Moth.

MY FAVORITE STORIES IN THE JULY WEIRD TALES ARE:

Story Remarks

( 1 )

( 2 )

(3)

I do not like the

( 1 )

( 2 )._

It ■will help us to know what kind of stories you want in Weird Tales if you will fill out this eotipon and mail it to The Eyrie, Weird Talcs, 840 X. Michigan Ave., Chicago, 111.

following stories: Why? ■

Reader’s name and address:



By BERNARD BERNARD, Sc.D. (Phys.) M.P. C., Editor “Health and Life’

I GNORANCE of the facts of life is to blame for the majority of human tragedies. This is now acknowledged to be true by all sincere people. Sex and all the problems surrounding it have been shrouded in the darkness of superstition and mystery. In “A Complete Book of Sex Knowledge” there is not a single side of the sex problem, and its application to every stage of human life that has not been fully treated. You cannot afford to be without this book, and no description of it can possibly convey to you its extraordinary value. It tells in non-technical language those things that worry people most.

PRINCIPAL CONTENTS

Chapter H — ^Adolescence

Undesirable Sex Habits of Adolescence. Soxnal Anatomy and Physiology. The Actual Birth of an Offspring. How a Mother Can Explain Things to Her Daughter.

How Diseases May Be “Picked Up.“ Instruction In Care at the Menstrual Period. Correcting Irregularities.

Chapter 111 — The Tonng Man

Should the Young Man Be Given Birth Control Information?

The Nature of “Social Diseases,”

Sympathy for Victims of Ignorance and Vicious Heredity. Flirting. Platonic Friendships, Falling In Love. How to Choose a Wife. The First Love Callings. The Spirit of Romance. Subconscious Sex Emotions. Why There Are Unhappy Marriages.

Chapter IV— The Young Woman

Shattered Dreams. The Facts of Reproduction. The World’s Host Beautiful Story. The Dangers of Life. Eroticism. The Organs of Reproduction. "Female” Illness. "Vamps.” Looking for the Best Ideal in Manhood. A Woman’s Maturation. Bad Habits and Their Serious Consequences. Special Sexual Cells. Fertilization and Deveiopment. Courtship Part of tke Function of Reproduction. The Necessity of Knowing the Facts of Birth Control. The Best Age for Marriage. Indiscriminate Love-making. Sexual Health and Efficiency.

Chapter V — The Married Man

The Influence of Youthful Habits. Sex a Blessing, Not a Curse, When Used Properly. Why Women Run Away Prom Some Men. The Basic Laws of Sex Conduct. Ignorant Husbands. The Husband’s Responsibility. Perversions and Weaknesses. Abnormal Psychology. Birth Control Predispositions Handed Down by Cur Ancestors. What Sex Weaknesses May lioad To. Sexual Nerve Irritations. The Supreme Cbject of Marriage.

Chapter VI — The Married Woman

Surprising Ignorance of Women in the Meaning of Marriage. Caution in the Acceptance of a Husband. The Story of an Ignorant Bride. How to Maintain a TIu.sband’s Love and Affection. The Sexual Nerves. Adaptation to Peculiarities in Men. Pregnancy. Sterility.

(There are also other important chapters on Birth to Puberty, The Bachelor, The Spinstress, Post Maturity in Man, and Post Maturity in Women; but the above will give you some small idea of the extraordinarily valuable contents of this great book.)

Simply piiy postman $2.75, plus postage. <No C. O. D. on foreign orders.) None sold to minors.

Health & Life Publications 508 S. Dearhorn St. Dept. B-S69. Chicago, III, SEND IX)K TOUR COPT NOW

This book will bo sold only to those over 18 years of age.

I HEALTH AND LIFE PUBLICATIONS I Dept. B-669. 608 S. Dearborn Street,

I Chicago, 111.

• Please send “A COMPLETE BOOK OP I SEX KNaWLEDQE." I enclose 82.75.

1 Name — — — -

I City State

I If you wish the book C. O. D.. send 50c deposit. It

* win then be mailed C. O. D.. the balance plus a few f cents postage. Cash must accompany orders outside ■ U. 8. as Post Office wll not accept C. O. D.

For Your Son and Daughter, Too

Tells all that the young man and youngwoman should know about the folly of sex passion — selfabuse — and “wild oats.’’ Most valuable book written.



The Corpse -Master

(Contimied from page 26 )

even the stTOngest sorcery can not transcend. The poor, dead zombie must be fed, for if it were not so, he could not continue to sei've the purpose of his execrable master. But he must be fed only certain things. If he taste salt or meat, though but the tiniest bit of either be concealed in a great quantity of food, he comes to a realization of his own deadness and goes back to his grave, nor can all the magic of his owner stay him from retuniing for one little second. Furthermore, when once he goes back, he is forever after dead — truly dead — and not to be again i-aised by any magic incantation, for Death which has so long been cheated at once reasserts his mastery, and putrefaction, which was stayed during the zombie’s period of servitude, takes place quickly, so that the zombie dead six months, if it returns to its grave and touches its hand to the earth, becomes at once like any other six-montlis-dead corpse — a mass of corruption, not pretty to the sight or pleasant to the nose, but preferable to the horrid dead-alive thing it was a moment before.

‘ ‘ Consider, then : The steward of the Rangel’S ’ Club told me of the awful tales this Monsieur Wallagin was wont to tell so boastfully — tales, said he, which made the hair to rise and the flesh to ci’eep — and when I pressed him for an explanation, he told me that Wallagin had bragged that he had been a zombie-maker, a corpse-master in black Haiti, and that the mysteries of Papa Nebo, Gouede Mazaeca and Gouede Onssou, those dread oracles of the dead, were an open book to him.

“ ‘So, Monsieur Wallagin,’ I say, ‘I damn suspect you have been up to the business of the monkey here in this so pleasant State of New Jersey. You have, it would seem, brought here the black mysteries of Haiti, and with

them you wreak vengeance on those you hate, n’est-ce-pasf’

“Thereupon I take my way to his house and wait beyond his gate in hope something will transpire. It does. It is a little, so small Chinaman who has been discharged from this Wallagin ’s employ.

“For why? Because he had put salt in the soup this Wallagin serves to Ms four guests!

“ ‘Four guests?’ I say. ‘I had not thought there wei*e so many. ’

“ ‘Nom d’un nom, yes,’ the Chinois tell me. ‘ There are one man and three so lovely women in that house, and all seem sleeping most of the time, save in the dark of night, when he has the women dance for his delight, and calls the men to witness the performance. Sometimes, too, he sends the men abraad at evening. It is at night he feeds them the soup without salt or meat which are not fit for a mangy dog to lap.’

“ ‘Oh, excellent young man of China, oh, paragon of all Celestials,’ I teU him, ‘you are truly of much assistance to me. Behold, I give you much money; come with me and we shall hire another cook for this Monsieur Wallagin the damned, and we shall bribe him well to smuggle a so small piece of meat into the soup which he shall prepare for those four “guests.” Salt the monster might ea.sily detect when he tastes the soup before it are served, but a little, tiny bit of meat would pass unnoticed by his palate. Nevertheless, it will do sufficiently for my purposes.’

*‘Voild, my friends, there is the explanation of this night’s so dreadful scenes. ’ ’

“But what are we going to do?” I demanded. “You can’t arrest this Wallagin. No court on earth would believe your story long enough to try him.”



“Do you believe it, my friend?*’ de Grandin addressed Costello.

“Sure, an’ I do,” the other returned. “Ain’t I seen it wid me own eyes?”

“Perfectly. And what would you say this so monstrous Wallagin’s punishment should be ? ”

“Ouch, Dr. de Grandin, sor, is it kiddin’ me ye are? Sure, what would I do if I seen a poison snake runnin’ across th ’ road as I was walkin ’ down th’ street wid a jolly bit o’ blackthome in me hand?”

“ Precisement,” de Grandin agreed. “Are you willing?” His fierce, uncompromising glance caught and held the Irishman’s eyes a moment; then, as a light of understanding dawned in Costello’s face, he thrust out his slender, womanishly small hand and lost it in the depths of the detective’s great fist.

“2'res hon, we are arrived; let us do what is to be done quickly,” de Grandin announced as I drew up before the Wall agin gate.

Without ceremony we marched up the garden path, turned the handle of the front door and hurried down the wide central hall of the big house.

Wallagin sat, or rather squatted, at ease on the pile of cushions in the superheated room in w'hich we had witnessed the dance of the dead a half-hour or so before. As we entered he raised supercilious, faintly amused eyebrows.

“Ah, Dr. de Grandin,” he greeted affably, “I’ve been rather expecting a visit from you — and Sergeant Costello. I’ve heard you gentlemen had paid me the compliment of prjnng into my poor affairs. Pray be seated — if you can so far debase yourselves as to repose on the floor. Unfortunately, I possess no chairs. ’ ’

*‘Monsieur ” — there was moi'e pity in the eyes of a hungry cat regarding a mouse than in the gaze de Grandin bent on the sneering toad-man — “wc are come to settle a reckoning with

MYSTICAL LAWS OF UFE

A Remarkable Book LOANED To All Seekers For Power

The Bosieriicianst were the Master Mystics in all ages and today they are organized students in all parts of the world. In their teachings they secretly preserve the ancient wisdom that made the Pyramids in Egypt the marvel of today.

With the higher occult laws and secrets of mystic power, YOU can change the course of vour life and attract SUCCESS, HEALTH and HAPPINESS and develop a mental foresight that will astound you and surprise your friends. Tiie Rosicrucian teachings contain the true knowledge of the mystics.

You may have a free copy of a book called “LIGHT OF EGYPT.” It is tho strange story of the Rosi crucians and it tells you how their private teachings may be had by YOU for your own benefit. The bo^ is s«‘nt without obligation. Address :

UBRAKIAN L. M.

ROSICRUCIAN ORDER

ASIORT SAN JOSE, CAXIE.

X DAV KATHOSOOrB. Pock- •ISA 1 ei Detector. ICverybody wcmts it. Sec your best erirl and all she^a doing. No one knows: you see everything. Periscope operate# In til climates; lasts lifetime; ready for use. Made of hard rubber. $1.00 cash with order for this wonderful instrument and 8 astonishing French picture#.

KATHOS CO., P. 0. Bon 8362, CHy HaH Pel Otfice, NewYtfcCity

Win>SKK¥ OK DRirO HABIT CUKKD OR KO pay! Secret treatment. 52.00 ff cured, sent or trial! (Gorges I.aboratories, Sta. C, Los Ang^cles. i Calif.

i SONG POEM WRITERS— "REAL” FROFOSltion. Kibbeler. 2104 N. Keystoae,

> Chicaigo.



you — parbleu, a reckoning which is exceedingly long overdue ! ’ ’

“So-o?” the other drawled. “Just how do you propose going about it, if I may be pardoned the curiosity? Let us suppose I admit everything you charge — assume I agree that I raised Gyp Carson from his grave to — er — eliminate the Clark brat and that sniveling old fool of an Evans and that pious hypocrite, Wolkof? What of it? Let us go a step further ; suppose I admit bringing Clark’s slut of a wife from the grave, together with Evans’ niece and Wolkof ’s sister, and confess I made them my — er — let us say playthings? What can you do? No grand jury would give your story a moment’s credence; they’d never bring in a true bill against me. If they did, no petit jury would convict me on such a fantastic story. This is the Twentieth Century, and we are in practical, hard-headed America, my dear sir. They stopped hanging witches here in 1692, you know. If I confess everything in open court it will simply be taken as sure proof of my mental derangement. I might be confined in an asylum for a time, but I’d have small difficulty in persuading the doctors I’d regained my reason within a few months, and in less than a year I should again be free. No, no, my clever friend; I’m just a bit too sharp to be taken in your trap. You’re stalemated before you begin to play, I fear.”

He turned his fat, voluptuous, unspeakably evil grin on each of us in turn, then continued tauntingly: “Suppose I surrender myself to you. Sergeant Costello. You’re an officer of the law and can’t very well use violence on a prisoner who expresses his willingness to accompany yoii. Come, take me to the station house and tell the story of my confession to the lieutenant — ^you’ll be kicked off the force for drankenness on duty tomorrow morning, if you do. You might ask your clever French friend how he managed to smuggle the meat into my pets’ soup before we go, however. I assume that, with his Latin freedom from scruples, he resorted to bribery and corruption of my cook? They do such things in Paris, I understand. ’ ’

Again he faced de Grandin, smiling contemptuously. “This scheme of things would seem to require the preachers’ fiery hell for adjustment, cher docteur,” he remarked pleasantly. “Earthly justice seems pitifully inadequate to the occasion, n’est-cepas?”

“Monsieur,” de Grandin assured him, speaking in a low, even monotone, “this business will be adjusted here and now ; make no mistake.

‘ ‘ Trowbridge, my friend, ’ ’ he turned to me, “I regret that I must request you to leave us for a little time. Your Saxon stomach could not stand that which is about to be enacted here. Await us with the car, if you will, good friend. Meantime, Sergeant Costello and I have that to do which will admit of small delay. Are you ready, Sergent?”

Prom inside his jacket he drew a bundle of slender sticks, no thicker than match stems, but about six inches in length. “You have undoubtlessly traveled in China, Monsieur?” he asked pleasantly, regarding Wallagin with a smile. “You recognize these and know the excellent use to which we propose putting them, heinf”

Something like terror showed in the livid, unhealthy face of the seated man. “Surely,” he began, “surely you won’t resort to — Sergeant Costello, I appeal to you as an officer of the law — I’m under your protection as an arrested prisoner. Mercy, man, save me! — save me from ”

“Dr. Trowbridge, sor,” the Sergeant turned to me, “would ye be so kind as to keep this bit o’ joolery for me till I join yez at th’ gate? ’Tis a favor I’d be grateful for.” From the underside of his coat lapel he detached the blue-enamel-and-gold shield of his office arid handed it to me. “Now, my bye,” he turned to



face Wallagin once more, "I’m riglit wid ye ! ”

I HAVE seen more pity depicted on the faces of torturers of tlie Inquisition in mediaeval paintings than appeared in de Grandin’s and Costello’s features as they wheeled with one accoi’d and advanced on their cringing, whimpering prisoner. Without a second look I turned and hastened from the room, nor did I slacken my hurried walk till I reached the ear and clambered into my seat behind the steering-wheel.

Once I heard a horrid, tliick-voieed scream from the house behind me, but it died almost as quickly as it came. After that, for what seemed eternity, there was ominous silence.

At last de Grandin and Costello emerged from the big dwelling, both serious-faced, but with an expression of grim satisfaction on their countenances.

"Well, Di’. de Grandin, sor,” the sei’geant remarked as he retrieved his shield from my custody and pinned it to his coat once more, "I shouldn’t much wonder if that’s another mysterious suicide th’ force’ll be raked over th ’ coals for not explainin ’. Eh ? ” “Tiens, it was a most unpleasant task, but I can vouch that it was well done,” the little Prenehman answered. “Ah bah, I have the vilely unpleasant taste in my moxith, cher Sergent. Come, we shall both l5e the better for a pint of brandy apiece.”

JS

Q TOOLS inOne!

.Trylrat

OurRisk;

FoylSDaml

Now you can have this new amazing 8 in. combination n t ur & J (18 tools in one) shipped l/C&terS Wftllt6u on 15 days' approval at manufacturer’s risk. A complete ideal machine shop for factory, work shop or home; will rip. cross cut, bevel, miter, mortise, groove, drill, tonon, grind, rabbet, buif and polish. 1/3 H.P.-A.C. motor included with all attachments. Write Quick for special 10 day offer.

SCOTT-BANSBACH CO. fsAVE

160 S. Clinton St. Chicago ( $ 1 S-OO

Why keep your nose on the grfndstona in ** just a job" at $35 or $40 a wook all your life? Learn Electricity where oppormnity is big and salarica run $60 a wcekamlupl Train in 12 liappy weeks at the Clreat Shops of Cov nc . Nobooka. All Real, practical work on actual machinery. Nopravlousexperianceor advanced education needed. Experts work right with you every step of tlic way. jSnter anytime.

BIG BOOK FREE!

Sand for UluBtxBtod book describisE BpooiAl offers. K. li. Faro allowed to all who enroll BOW. Ooarsea in Aviation Electricity, Auto Blectri city and Radioincinded. Find out bow

_ many students earn whileleamlns.Free

Employment Service fw life. Get the facts now. Mail coupon today.

ELECTRICAL SCHOOL

500 S. Paulina St., Dept88-97.Ghicago

HaC. LEWiik COYNE Electrical School, Dept. 69-97

BOO So. PauUna Street, Chlcaso, Ul.

Dear Mr. Lewis: . _ .....

Without obligation please eend me your Free Illuitrated Book oa electricity aud Coyne. Also special offer of B. B. Fare allovanoa.

COYNE

Name,

Addreaa,

City 7 State.

llOCKiWOfiPillS

^rBOOKfO^

Explain.^ many mystifying tricks with colnR, cards, handkerchiefs, etc., you can do. Also contains complete catalog of Magic Tricks, Jokes, Puzzles. Escapes, rurio.s, and Imported Novelties from many Foreign lands, lisrgo assortment, lowest prices. You will amaze and mystuy your friends I Send 10c today.

LYLE DOUGLAS,

Station A-S Dnlfao, Toxm

Platinum Effect WRIST WATCH, Engraved Satin Phtif^hed, Jo%vetod Movement. A frunranteed time* ■■ keeper. Ju!)ta^ 112 tnbee of RUN * Pf9 PR(X>Fand seleetyoorpreeent sclitB conling to offer with gooda . Jh RUNPHOOFHtopsrunflinaiuhaai* ^^lory and Lingerie. i''vpry Woman buy . Nothing like it . Srnd pamr addrcita, S^'^a norntmeyTHE RUNPROOF COMPAQ S12 W. Huron, Dept. A-23, Chicago

NEvy model;

or DRUG HABIT

CURED FOREVER or NO PAY

uli treatment sent on trial. Can be

I H given accretly in privacy of home. Guaraoceed

.. bemahforevcralideaircforwiiiikey.gin, wine, home

_ brew, moonahine, opium, morphine, berom, paregoric end lendnum. Coats flJiO ff cures, nothing if talk. Sevc him from Polaoa. STANDARD LABORATORIES Stt. N-33 BALTIMORE. .MD.

rOR 19«9 NIKMKROLOGICAL FORKOAST, SEND

20c and birth date*. Martha »Sanchez, 820 Howard St., Detroit. Mich. Detailed forecast $1.00.



The Wishing-Well

( Continued f rom page 34)

been taken ill. She knew that the power she had absorbed mto her when she embraced tliat spectral horror by the wishing-well was being drained out of her by some vaster imtency, which, vampirelike, was drinking up her own vitality as well. She had been quite conscious all day, but often she had seen, wavcringly, like the flame of a candle blown this way and that in the draft, the dim semblance of the shrouded figiu-e round which she had cast her welcoming arms. It seemed to be still attached to her by some band of fdmy whiteness and to be incomplete, but about the hour of sunset she saw that the specter stood by hci’ bed, fully formed and severed from her. The face was now deeply pitted by corruption, and it floated away from her and drifted out of the window. She was left hei’e, human once more, but sick unto death.

She remembered how she had written Steven’s name, and dedicated him to the power of the Avishing-well. Yet what had come of that ? For the last week now Steven had brought the morning’s milk, hale and handsome, with inquiries about her from his mother. Could it be, slie questioned with herself, that she had failed in some point of the damnable ritual, and that what she had widtteii was active not for his doom but for hers? It would be wise to destroy that slip of paper, if she could only get to it, not because she had ceased to wish him evil, but from the fear that it was her vitality that was being drained from her on that fruitless pui-pose.

She got out of bed, giddy with weakness, and managed to get into a skirt and .jersey, and slip her feet into her shoes. The house was quiet, and step by .step she struggled downstairs and to the door. The wholesome wind off the sea put a little life into her, and she shuffled along the strip of turf down which she had danced and capered, which lay between the lich-gate and the weU. She passed round the screen of bushes, and there, on the stone bench, was Steven’s mother. She rose as Judith appeared and curtsied.

“Aw, dear, why you look poorly indeed, Miss Judith,” she said. “Is it wise of you to come out ? To the wishing-well, too : there have been strange doings here.”

“Oh, I’ll be mending .soon,” said Judith. “A drink from the wishingwell was what I fancied.”

She knelt dowm on the curb, leaning one hand against the w’all of the well, while with the other she felt among the ferns that fringed it. There was the slip of paper she had hidden, and she drew it forth.

“Take your drink, then. Miss Judith,” said Ml'S. Penarth. “Why, whatever have you found? That’s a queer thing to have gotten! A slip of paper, is it? Open it, dear soul: maybe there’s some good news in it.”

Judith crushed it up in her hand: there was no need for her to look, and even as she knelt there, she felt a sweet lightening and cooling of her fever come over her.

Mrs. Penarth shot out her hand at her.

“Open it, you slut, you paltry witch!” she screamed. “Do my bidding ! ’ ’

Judith opened it, and read her own name written there. She tried to rise to her feet ; she swayed and staggered and fell forward into the wishing-well. It was very deep, and the sides of it were slippery with slime and watermoss. Once she caught at the step on which she had knelt, but her fingers failed to grasp it, and she sank. Once after that she rose, and there came a roaring in her ears, and to her eyes a blackness, and down her throat there poured the cool water of the wishingwell.



The Death Touch

( Continued from page 48)

crew was — and past them unmolested. Now he was in the passage beyond. We rushed after him and were at the bottom of the cave entrance when he plunged into the white, frozen Antarctic. Gaining the top, we saw him^ading through tlie snow.

‘ ‘ He ’ll make for the ship ! Cut him off ! ” cried Priest.

I could not answer. Tlie sudden cold, after the dank tropical heat, froze my throat. I plowed on, watching that lumbering mass ahead of us. I could not have moved faster, nor could Priest.

But something was coming over Yardley. The swing was going out of his body and giving way to a stiffness. Bowed against the wind, he became all of one piece, as rigid as stone. His legs moved with no roll to them but only a mechanical jerkiness, and they were lagging presently. We were able to gain on him.

Where the hills sank to the bay on our left, he did not turn. We could see the ship now, but he did not see it or turn his head to find it. He kept on past it. I crept up closer, until that great hole in his shoulder was plainly visible, white as leprosy.

At the last I yelled at him, and Priest flung his broken knife and hit him in the back. There was no response. He kept on at that mechanical gait, on — on — on. ... I laughed and stopped Priest.

“Can’t you see? He’s frozen!” I said. “He doesn’t know what he’s doing. He ’ll go on and on until ’ ’

Priest’s bloodshot eyes met mine. “Until what?” he demanded.

I had no answer. Until he was dead? Let electrical science explain how he was alive at all. But electrical science would never know.

“There’s maybe half a crew to save,” I said, and turned around.

But we were held there in spite of

MURDER BY THE CLOCK'-voted the best detective etory of the month by the Crimo Club? the Dotectivo StoiY Club; and also recommended by the Book of the Month Club. Price $2 at any book store. Join the “Crime Club’*. Write for free information. Address **MASTERMINO'*o CRIME CLUB INC., GARDEN CITY, N.Y., Dept> 8

What Do You Want?

Whatever it is we can help you get it. Just give us the chance by writing for

** Clouds Dispelled**

Absolutely Free. You will be delighted. Art today! Write NOW 1 1

THE BROTHERHOOD OF LIGHT Oept. O. Box 1SS5, Los Antreles, Oalif.

YOU MEN PAST 40 TRY THIS

_ _ M All In? WeakTLack Vigor? If you havd Mag lost your Courago "

9 0 0 and Grow Tired FORMULA *0®,“®"'

send at once for 777 (Formula)^ the amaa« infir new tome discovery, pep and energy back qalck. Feel like a new

man, fall of red-blooded

vim and vigor. Nothing NEW WONDERTABLET like 777 (Formula) . That*8 why so many are finding this tonic so wonderful. Satisfaction guaranteed or money back. Send $2.00 for double strength package.

special 2 package offer, $3.00. Also C. O.D.

Cm*. C«. Dapl.W.T.-3— 880 Aroh St., Phil.., Pa.

or DRUG HABIT

CURIO FOREVER or NO PAX reatmeot sent oo trial. Cao be

_..key,fiiD, wine, bom*

_ *brew, moooablne, opium, morphine, heroin, paregoric ^ind |laudaum. f2.00 0" curea, notbiofi U faila^T^^D

'LABORATORIES

Sta.NP83

Y QFPR FTQ that everyone wants to know.

^ daring book full of plain truths, intimate secrets of love, passion, and strong emotion sent sealed In a plain wrapper upon receipt of 60c. Central Publishing Co., 107 Railway Exchange Bldg., Kansas City, Missouri.

^AD Ik AAA 0** SNUPP HABITf ll UDAVWU Cured Or No Pay B

a Any fomL dgaia, cigarettes, bwjS, pipe, chewing. Fhh treatment B Son trial, uatinless. Coats gLfiO if cureo. nothing if it fafla. Overm 1 600,000 tzeetninits tu^ SUPERS CO. ni-n, Baltimore Md. B

Horoscope; two questions answered. Or, four questions anstverM without horoscope. Birthwte and One Dollar. Aida K. Fendleton, G. P. O. Box 636, New ITork.

tNVKNTIONS WANTED — PATENTED, DNpatented. If you have an Idea for sale, write Hartley. Box 928, Bangor, Maine.



Next Month

The INN of TERROR I

By GASTON LEROUX

A MASTERPUiCE of gi’ippiiig terror by the author of “The Phantom of the Opera.” An eery, sliuddery mystery-1 ale of uncanny power and intense fascination.

T ins great French writer fairly outdoes himself in this new tale. No ghost-story is this, for the eldritch horrors in that dreadful inn were wholly real, wholly frightful ; and the mastery of style which has given this author his wide fame allows the reader to feel the terrifying experiences with startling realism. This superb goose-flesli story will be published complete in the

Axigiist issue of


On Sale July 1 Clip and Mail this Coupon Today!

WEIRD TAI.es,

MO North Michigan Atc.,

Chicago, m.

Enclosed find tl for special fire months subscription to “Weird Tales” to begin with the August Issue ($1.25 in Canada). Special offer void unless remittance is accompanied by coupon.

Name

Address

City State

oul-selves, our eyes on that single moving thing in all the vast motionlessness. It dwindled to the size of a penguin and then to a mere .speck. Beyond it was nothing but polar silence.

The

Haunted Forest

By EDITH HURLEY

There is a forest deep and dark. Where never sunbeam strays;

Dntraveled are its winding paths, And all untrod its ways.

And there are dusky violets In little, silent dells.

And a dim cave within a rock Where Pan, the goat-god, dwells.

And in one still and hidden spot There is a crystal pool ;

Serene its surface as a glass.

And weirdly beautiful.

i No wind disturbs those ancient trees, And nothing living stirs ;

For broken are the shrines of Pan, And gone his worshipers.

Yet on some mystic nights in May, Safe from the eyes of man.

Above a strange wind’s crying.

Long call the pipes of Pan.

And from the hills and hollows The faiiy people come.

With flute and lute and viol And beat of tiny drum.

Near by the pool’s green edges They dance the long hours througH,

And golden is the moonlight.

And silver is the dew.

Their songs are all sung softly.

And gently do they tread ;

For lo, the place is haunted By ghosts of men long dead.

Just ATMst Of The Wrist

Banishes Old-Style Can Openers to the Scrap Heap and

BRINGS AGENTS $6 to $8 IN AN HOUR

W OMEN universally detest the old-style can opener. Yet^n every home in the land cans are being opened with it, often several times a day. Imagine how^ thankfully they welcome this new method — this automatic way of doing their most distasteful job. With the Speedo can opening machine you can just put the can in the machine, turn the handle, and almost instantly the job is done.

drop spilled, without any rough edges to snag your fingers — all in a couple of seconds ! It's so easy even a 10-yearold child can do it in perfect safety 1 No wonder women — and men, too — simply go wild over it! No wonder Speedo salesmen often sell to every house in the block and make up to $10.00 an hour.

Generous Free Test OjfFer

End This Waste and Danger

You undoubtedly know what a nasty, dangerous job it is to open cans with the old-fashioned can opener. You have to hack your way along slowly — ripping a jagged furrow around the edge. Next thing you know, the can opener slips. Good night ! You've torn a hole in your finger. As liable as not it will get infected and stay sore a long time. Perhaps even your life will be endangered from blood poisoning !

You may be lucky enough to get the can open without cutting yourself. But there’s still the fact to consider that the ragged edge of tin left around the top makes it almost impossible to pour out all of the food. Yet now, all this trouble, waste and danger is ended. No wonder salesmen everywhere are finding this invention a truly revolutionary money maker!

“Here is my record for first 30 days with Speedo :

June 13, 60 Speedos ;

June 20, 84 Speedos ; June 30. 192 Speedos ; July 6, 288 Speedos. Speedo sells to 9 out of 10 prospects."

M. Ornoff, Va. PART TIME 14 Sales in 2 Hours J. J. Corwin, Ariz., says “Send more order books. I sold first 14 orders in 2 hours."

SPARE TIME Big Money SpareTime Barb, W. Va., says: “Was only out a few evenings and got 20 orders."

A “Million Dollar” Can Opening Machine

The Speedo holds the can — opens i<- fiips up the lid so you can grab it — and gives you hack the can without a

Frankly, men, I realize that the profit possibilities of this proposition as outlined briefly here may seem almost incredible to you. So I’ve worked out a plan by which you can examine the invention and test its profit without risking one penny.

Get my free test offer while the territory you want is still open — I’ll hold it for you while you make the test. I'll send you all the facts about $75 to $160 a week. I'll also tell you about another fast selling item that brings you two profits on every call. All you risk is a 2c stamp — so grab your pencil and shoot me the coupon right now.

CENTRAL STATES MFC. CO., Dept. G-2382 4500 Mary Ave. (Est. over 20 years) St. Louis, IVlo.

8 Central States Mfg. Co.,

2 4500 Mary Ave., Dept. G-2382,

2 St. Louis, Mo.

! Yes, rush me the facts and details of your FREE ■ OFFER.

J Name

g Address

i

J City State

9 ( ) Check here if interested only in one for your own home.

No More Razor Blades

To Buy/

Inventor Discovers Amazing NcwWay to Shave!

-Without Buying Blades!

365 KEEN SHAVES

A Year With One Single Blade

"I want to say that KRISS KROSS Stropper Is the best thing 1 ever saw. 1 hare been using cne blade continuously for one year and nine months and have no idea how much longer it will last."

S. Stephenson, Okla.

K een, veWety shaves forever and no more blades to buy! That’s what this astonishing invention offers the great army of American shavers today!

KRISS-KBOSS is destined to revolutionize all existing traditions of shaving I its performance is so sensational that it seems hardly fair to call it a stropper. Rather it is a auper-stropper or bladerejuvenator! No longer do you find that your blades “die" after five or six shaves. KBISS-KROSS "brings 'em to life" a surprising way! Actually — you can take a blade right out of a fresh package and improve it as much as 100% in eleven seconds with KRISS* KROSS!

MAGIC DIAGONAL STROKE

KRISS-KROSS employs the famous diagonal stroke, same as a master barber uses. Never before has anyone captured the secret of reproducing it automatically. Eight "lucky leather grooves" do the trick in 11 seconds with a precision it takes a master barber years to attain. Strops from heavy to light. Adjustable, automatic Jig flies up and notifies you that your blade is ready — ready with the keenest eutting-edge that steel can take!

KRISS'KROSS produces unbelievable sharpness and prolongs the life of any razor blade for months and even years. Fits all brands and makes except Durhani. Eliminates 33% of shaving costs and solves your blade problem for all time!

SENSATIONAL OFFER

features. Instantly adjustable to any shaving position. A flip of the finger makes it (1) T-Shape; ( 3 ) straight (old style); (3) or diagonal (new way). Otves a slidine instead of pulling stroke. Simply zips right through the toughest crop of whiskers. Made of

rustless metal. Comes with 5 special-process blades and is entirely unlike anything you ever saw before!

GET FREE OFFER

Send for full infoematlon on these surprising new Inventions today. KRISS-KROSS products are never sold in stores. You deal direct with me or my authorized representative. Write for illustrated description and full details of free razor oifer. It’s even more remarkable than 1 can tell you in this short space. Clip the coupon now. Mall it today.

AGENTS

tSOADAST

Makebig money with KltlSSKROSS. Giving away FREE razors boosts your profits amazingly. H. King made 366 in one day. N. C. Paige made $104 In 3 days! Others average $330 and up to $750 a month! Sparetime workers. Office and yactory men make $6-$12 extra a day showing KRISS-KROSS to friends and fellow employees. S. Kantala made $134 extra Just working evenings 3 weeks. Get details at once. Check hottoui of coupon and mail It tonight!

And now for my surprising offer. To introduce KRISS-KROSS, I am giving with it Free a new kind of razor. Possesses remarkable

!Pt!5]KMSS KROSS

CORPORAnON

I Rhodes’ KRISS-KROSS Corporation, Dept. H*3783 |

I 1418 Pendleton Ave., St. Louis. Me. j

I Without obligation, please send me illustrated description and l I full details of your special Introductory offer on KRISS-KROSS | 1 super-stropper and FREE S-way razor. |

j Name — |

Dept. H-3783 1418 Pendleton Ave. ST. LODIS, MO.

Largest Manufacturers of Mechanical Strappers in the World.

Canadian Address:

CANADtAN KRISS-KROSS CO.

39 Wellingrton Street East, Toronto 2. Canada

I Address |

I Town State-. — |

I ( ) Check here If interested In making money as authorized j

I KRISS-KROSS representative. 1

[THE END]
