============================================================
Weird Tales
Volume 30, Number 6
Date: December 1937
============================================================
============================================================
TABLE OF CONTENTS

  1. "Fragment Robert E" by Howard
============================================================
============================================================
by Howard
============================================================
Then he walked out of the open door, crossed the garden pensively, and moved out on a branch of the great fig-tree to meditate. To meditate — perhaps to ruminate his memories.

I ragment

By ROBERT E. HOWARD

And so his boyhood wandered into youth,

And still the hazes thickened round his head,

And red, lascivious nightmares shared his bed And fantasies with greedy claw and tooth Burrowed into the secret parts of him—

Gigantic, bestial and misshapen paws Gloatingly fumbled each white youthful limb,

And shadows lurked with scarlet gaping jaws.

Deeper and deeper in a twisting maze Of monstrous shadows, shot with red and black.

Or gray as dull decay and rainy days.

He stumbled onward. Ever at his back He heard the lecherous laughter of the ghouls.

Under the fungoid trees lay stagnant pools Wherein he sometimes plunged up to his waist And shrieked and scrambled out with loathing haste, Feeling unnumbered slimy fingers press His shrinking flesh with evil, dank caress.

Life was a cesspool of obscenity —

He saw through eyes accursed with unveiled sight — Where Lust ran rampant through a screaming Night And black-faced swine roared from the Devil’s styes; Where grinning corpses, fiend-inhabited,

Walked through the world with taloned hands outspread; Where beast and monster swaggered side by side,

And unseen demons strummed a maddening tune;

And naked witches, young and brazen-eyed,

Flaunted their buttocks to a lustful moon.

Rank, shambling devils chased him night on night,

And caught and bore him to a flaming hall,

Where lambent in the flaring crimson light A thousand long-tongued faces lined the wall.

And there they flung him, naked and a-sprawl Before a great dark woman’s ebon throne.

How dark, inhuman, strange, her deep eyes shone!


By H. P. LOVECRAFT

The watcher could not tell which was dream and which was reality — a brief weird fantasy by a late master of eery fiction

INTO the north window of my chamber glows the Pole Star with uncanny light. All through the long hellish hours of blackness it shines there. And in the autumn of the year, when the winds from the north curse and whine, and the red-leaved trees of the swamp mutter things to one another in the small hours of the morning under the horned waning moon, I sit by the casement and watch that star. Down from the heights reels the glittering Cassiopeia as the hours v/ear on, while Charles’ Wain lumbers up from behind the vapor-soaked swamp trees that sway in the night wind. Just before dawn Arcturus winks ruddily from above the cemetery on the low hillock, and Coma Berenices shimmers weirdly afar off in the mysterious east; but still the Pole Star leers down from the same place in the black vault, winking hideously like an insane watching eye which strives to convey some strange message, yet recalls nothing save that it once had a message to convey. Sometimes, when it is cloudy, I can sleep.

Well do I remember the night of the great aurora, when over the swamp played the shocking coruscations of the demon light. After the beam came clouds, and then I slept.

And it was under a horned waning moon that I saw the city for the first time. Still and somnolent did it lie, on a strange plateau in a hollow betwixt strange peaks. Of ghastly marble were its walls and its towers, its columns,

domes, and pavements. In the marble streets were marble pillars, the upper parts of which were carven into the images of grave bearded men. The air was warm and stirred not. And overhead, scarce ten degrees from the zenith, glowed that watching Pole Star.

Long did I gaze on the city, but the day came not. When the red Aldebaran, which blinked low in the sky but never set, had crawled on a quarter of the way around the horizon, I saw light and motion in the houses and the streets. Forms strangely robed, but at once noble and familiar, walked abroad, and under the horned waning moon men talked wisdom in a tongue which I understood, though it was unlike any language I had ever known. And when the red Aldebaran had crawled more than half-way around the horizon, there were again darkness and silence.

When I waked, I was not as I had been. Upon my memory was graven the vision of the city, and within my soul had arisen another and vaguer recollection, of whose nature I was not then certain. Thereafter, on the cloudy nights when I could sleep, I saw the city often; sometimes under the hot, yellow rays of a sun which did not set, but which wheeled low around the horizon. And on the clear nights the Pole Star leered as never before.

Gradually I came to wonder what might be my place in that city on the strange plateau betwixt strange peaks.




At first content to view the scene as an all-observant uncorporeal presence, I now desired to define my relation to it, and to speak my mind amongst the grave men who conversed each day in the public squares. I said to myself, "This is no dream, for by what means can I prove the greater reality of that other life in the house of stone and brick south of the sinister swamp and the cemetery on the low hillock, where the Pole Star peeps into my north window each night?”

ONE night as I listened to the discourse in the large square containing many statues, I felt a change; and perceived that I had at last a bodily form. Nor was I a stranger in the streets of Olathoe, which lies on the plateau of Sarkia, betwixt the peaks of Noton and Kadiphonck. It was my friend Alos who spoke, and his speech was one that pleased my soul, for it was the speech of a true man and patriot. That night had the news come of Daikos’ fall, and of the advance of the Inutos; squat, hellish yellow fiends who five years ago had appeared out of the unknown west to ravage the confines of our kingdom, and many to besiege our towns. Having taken the fortified places at the foot of the mountains, their way now lay open to the plateau, unless every citizen could resist with the strength of ten men. For the squat creatures were mighty in the arts of war, and knew not the scruples of honor which held back our tall, gray-eyed men of Lomar from ruthless conquest.

Alos, my friend, was commander of all the forces on the plateau, and in him lay the last hope of our country. On this occasion he spoke of the perils to be faced, and exhorted the men of Olathoe, bravest of the Lomarians, to sustain the traditions of their ancestors, who when forced to move southward from Zobna before the

advance of the great ice sheet (even as our descendants must some day flee from the land of Lomar), valiantly and victoriously swept aside the hairy, long-armed, cannibal Gnophkehs that stood in their way. To me Alos denied a warrior’s part, for I was feeble and given to strange faintings when subjected to stress and hardships. But my eyes were the keenest in the city, despite the long hours I gave each day to the study of the Pnakotic manuscripts and the wisdom of the Zobnarian Fathers; so my friend, desiring not to doom me to inaction, rewarded me with that duty which was second to nothing in importance. To the watch-tower of Thapnen he sent me, there to serve as the eyes of our army. Should the Inutos attempt to gain the citadel by the narrow pass behind the peak Noton and thereby surprize the garrison, I was to give the signal of fire which would warn the waiting soldiers and save the town from im-. mediate disaster.

Alone I mounted the tower, for every man of stout body was needed in the passes below. My brain was sore dazed with excitement and fatigue, for I had not slept in many days; yet was my purpose firm, for I loved my native land of Lomar, and the marble city Olathoe that lies betwixt the peaks of Noton and Kadiphonek.

But as I stood in the tower’s topmost chamber, I beheld the horned waning moon, red and sinister, quivering through the vapors that hovered over the distant valley of Banof. And through an opening in the roof glittered the pale Pole Star, fluttering as if alive, and leering like a fiend and tempter. Methought its spirit whispered evil counsel, soothing me to traitorous somnolence with a damnable rhythmical promise which it repeated over and over:

POLARIS


Slumber, watcher, till the spheres.

Six and twenty thousand years Have revolv'd, and I return To the spot where now I burn.

Other stars anon shall rise To the axis of the skies;

Stars that soothe and stars that bless With a sweet forgetfulness:

Only when my round is o’er Shall the past disturb thy door.

Vainly did I struggle with my drowsiness, seeking to connect these strange words with some lore of the skies which I had learned from the Pnakotic manuscripts. My head, heavy and reeling, drooped to my breast, and when next I looked up it was in a dream; with the Pole Star grinning at me through a window from over the horrible swaying trees of a dream swamp. And I am still dreaming.

In my shame and despair I sometimes scream frantically, begging the dreamcreatures around me to waken me ere the Inutos steal up the pass behind the peak

Noton and take the citadel by surprize; but these creatures are demons, for they laugh at me and tell me I am not dreaming. They mock me whilst I sleep, and whilst the squat yellow foe may be creeping silently upon us. I have failed in my duty and betrayed the marble city of Olathoe; I have proven false to Alos, my friend and commander. But still these shadows of my dreams deride me. They say there is no land of Lomar, save in my nocturnal imaginings; that in these realms where the Pole Star shines high, and red Aldebaran crawls low around the horizon, there has been naught save ice and snow for thousands of years, and never a man save squat, yellow creatures, blighted by the cold, whom they call Eskimos.

And as I writhe in my guilty agony, frantic to save the city whose peril every moment grows, and vainly striving to (Please turn to page 759 )

By BASSETT MORGAN

AS THE little trading-schooner drew strangely repellent. Willoughby, who /-% nearer the shadowy fringes of the had impulsively answered the offer of ^ island, the talk on deck fell to si- Professor Denham to spend a year or so lence. The tropic beauty of Papua was helping the scientist in his investigation

in deep sea lore off these shores at a salFrom WEIRD TALES for July, 1926.



ary of three thousand dollars a year, rather regretted his acceptance. He felt as if mysterious tentacles of miasmic jungle swamps breathed poison in the perfume-laden off-shore wind. It was like the breath of a black panther. He took Professor Denham's letter from his pocket and read it again.

Five years before, Willoughby had been a student under Professor Denham in the University of California, and had gained a name for himself as a football star. He had regretted the circumstances which prompted Professor Denham to resign the chair of science under the storm of ridicule and protest resulting when a newspaper featured the scientist’s assertion that sea-serpents really existed. The article was illustrated by a cartoon of Professor Denham and Chueng Ching, a Chinese student who was his especial protege and devoted to Denham, in the coils of a serpent labeled "Public Opinion,” depicting the agony of the Laocoon. There was the account of class experiments in transplanting the brain of one rat to the head of another, and of the practical joke perpetrated by a student assistant in substituting the brain of -a female rat for that of a male, which led to riotous speculation on the campus as to the outcome of the experiment.

Willoughby had been sorry for Professor Denham. It was, however, the three thousand dollars salary that decided him to accept Denham’s offer and take the next steamer from San Francisco east, re-embarking on a trading-schooner for Papua, and Denham was to send a boat to take him to his own habitation.

The letter, which he re-read within sight of landing, had emphasized the necessity of "a strong fearless man, without nerves.” Willoughby interpreted the phrase with a new meaning, now that he recognized the repellent fascination of Papua.

He had no sooner stepped ashore than a Chinese in oil-stained dungarees approached him and spoke:

"You allee samee Mista Will’ bee, you come ’long my boat.”

He had scant time to bid farewell to his acquaintances of the trading-vessel when he was led to a launch lying on water so clear that she seemed to be floating on air. Her propeller churned foam and she careened a little as they rounded the point; then for hours the launch raced along the coast, where jungles brooded and river mouths showed no banks, but only trees rooted in swamp. Fighting a loneliness he could not analyze, Willoughby watched sea gardens beneath and tried to reason away a lowering depression. The Chinese ignored his tentative approaches to conversation by unbroken and stoical silence.

In the late afternoon, with her engines slowed to half-speed, the launch entered a lagoon, where echoes of her pulsations disturbed boobies on the wreck of an old ship pronged on coral spurs. The lagoon water held gaudy little fish scattering like sparks between skeleton-white roots of drowned trees. Sea life had made the wreck its prey. White decay crept up her sides and she was rooted to abysmal depths by weeds. A small wharf sagged under forest creepers with tendrils trailing in the sea. The planks creaked alarmingly as Willoughby trod them following the boatman, and met the shrill hum of insects. The heat was like a furnace blast. He was aware of a throb like tic-douloureux pulsing incessantly, as if on distant hills the heat had a voice.

What had once been a path leading from the wharf was now overgrown. The Chinese, lathered with sweat, slashed with a knife at trailing vines. Orchids quivered like flames. The incessant hum of insects rose in loud crescendo, but as they progressed the trail became less conW. T.— 7

LAOCOON


fused with looped lianas. Sunlight filtered through brandies overhead. And ever nearer came that slow beat of sound, touching nerve centers as insistently as the insect humming irritated the eardrums.

Then the jungle was ended and Willoughby saw a bamboo palisade enclosing ground that had once been cleared and under cultivation; yet the jungle, beaten back, had swarmed again, choking the garden, creeping over the palisade and the crushed coral walk which led to a substantial dwelling with nipa-thatched roof and a vine-covered pergola leading to shore rocks which rose abruptly at one side. It was then that Willoughby understood that diapason of sound, the shock of outer seas breaking in subterranean caverns.

T he Chinese who had guided him did not enter the gate, but darted beside the palisade. Willoughby heard no sign of human presence save the "shir-rr”,of his boot-soles on the coral. Then a Chinese wearing the white ducks of a houseboy appeared in a doorway cut through luxuriant bougainvillea vines purple with bloom. He stood staring at Willoughby, with his hands twisting together. For a moment Willoughby felt again that sense of helplessness bred by the jungle, the fear of encroaching death.

"Tell your boss-man that Willoughby is here,” he said.

He followed the Chinese into the house. The large living-room was shaded and cool. Chinese matting covered the floor. Sea-grass chairs offered ease. There were wall cases filled with labeled specimens of sea denizens, a table holding a typewriter and note-book and some loose pages of script. The house was clean and orderly, yet he still felt as if the jungle lay too close for safety.

W. T.— 8

"Boss-man, he come bimeby,” ventured the Chinese plaintively.

"Where’s Chueng Ching?” Willoughby knew the Chinese student had accompanied Denham to his retreat and, it was rumored, provided funds for the scientist.

"Him gone long time. I not know much.” The reply brought a grimace from the house-boy, as of apprehension.

"You got one piecee ship, I go out ’longside,” he added plaintively, then darted back at the sound of steps, as Professor Denham entered.

Willoughby was shocked at the change in him. Denham’s skin seemed stretched over his bones, his eyes shone like those of a madman, the hand extended to Willoughby felt cold and lifeless as that of a corpse in spite of tropic heat.

"Glad you arrived, Willoughby,” he said. "You’ve come too late to see Chueng Ching today, but he’ll be here tomorrow. We’ll eat, then you can rest. You’ll excuse me if I write a few notes right away. I’ve just come from Chueng Ching and I must get them down at once.”

Willoughby was a little surprized, but he followed the house-boy to a room with a bed screened by netting, took off his shoes, collar and coat and dropped on the cotton covering and dozed. He was awakened by the clink of dishes. In the livingroom a table was set for two, but Denham did not appear.

The house-boy hovered near, serving Willoughby eagerly, and when the coffee was brought voiced again his wistful plea, "You got one piecee ship, I go out ’longside.”

He seemed to hang on Willoughby’s answer. Plainly the Chinese was in the grip of fear, and the white man remembered again the encroaching jungle and the derelict rooted to sea gardens. He wished Denham would return, and went



on the porch to look for his host. He did not mind the lack of courtesy, but the silence and oppression were affecting his nerves. Tropic night had fallen, the mosquitoes were vicious. Beyond the murmur of sea caverns he heard nothing, and returned to the house, to look at the specimens in wall cases, then to reach the typewriter stand where he glanced at a sheet still in the carrier. Without consciousness of reading something not intended for him, Willoughby glanced at the typing in view:

"There is now no doubt but that physical coarseness of the beast has absorbed the fine mentality of Chueng Ching. I fed him double the usual amount of chicken yesterday, and he was in a fine rage for more. His roarings are bestial. The pool was lashed to foam by his fury. And I am assured that his rage was directed toward me, his friend and companion. It is scarcely a year since he was sorrowful at the thought that I should die before he died and leave him alone. Now he is all brute and I am punished. He no longer heeds my voice...”

As if the writer had been interrupted at his task, the sentence was left unfinished. Willoughby read with mingled rage and horror. Evidently Chueng Ching had gone insane and he had been hired to care for a madman. He resented it. Yet he was virtually a prisoner on the island unless he could find the boatman who brought him. He stood a moment, wondering what to do. The little houseboy lingered near him constantly without giving the impression of watching, but shook his head when Willoughby demanded to see Denham.

"No can do,” he said plaintively.

Willoughby went through the curtained doorway into a room evidently belonging to Chueng Ching, to judge by the embroidered tapestries moving in the draft. Chests of carved teak stood between wall cases. A table held metal tubes, with sealed ends and addressed to the Royal College at Pekin. Willoughby heard the squawking of hens and ran outside into the pergola of vines. A lantern stood beside a bamboo coop and Professor Denham was wringing the neck of a hen and tossing it on the ground while he reached for others. He looked at Willoughby, and it seemed to him that Denham’s eyes held mingled fear and madness.

Then he heard the sound of water threshed as if by storm, although there was no wind and not a leaf of the vines stirred.

"Chueng Ching,” said Denham. "Hungry again. Such gluttony! I wish you’d arrived earlier, but it’s difficult to see him at night. Go into the house, Willoughby, and read those notes you’ll find. I’ll return presently and tell you all about him.”

Denham gathered the slaughtered hens and darted down the vine-covered passageway of the pergola. There was the sound of an iron door banged shut, the repeated noise of water threshed violently, and Willoughby returned to the house, where he took up the typed script, arranged the pages according to numbers and glanced over them. Fear, horror, fascination held him. He forgot where he was. He was unaware of the house-boy standing mute near his chair, seeking companionship in a fear that was sapping his life. Willoughby sat on the edge of his chair, hair slowly rising, scalp prickly, his palms moist with cold sweat.

have now the evidence that ocean A depths are a desert of ice-cold water with no living organism; soundless, still, dark nothingness. A ship sinking to those depths would cease to be, ground into molecules on the ocean bed. The silence must be fearful. But greatest satisLAOCOON


faction of all is the proving of my theory that sea-serpents, as they are popularly called, do exist, and that their armor of scales and longevity has preserved some of them to this day. The cavern pool is an ideal spot for such a sea denizen to lurk. Chueng Ching told me that he had heard rumors of this haunted cavern, when we were both in California, and he is as delighted as I, that we have found the thing, and my years of research are rewarded....

"It is three months since I added to this diary. Chueng Ching is despondent. The white spot which he tells me has been spreading for a year is only too plainly evidence of leprosy. Chueng Ching is accursed, doomed to a lingering death, a tragedy for both of us. He feels it keenly because we have found what we sought, and for him there will not be time to pursue the study of the sea-serpent. We spoke, last night, of the restrictions of man’s limited span of life, the pity that we are not given enough years, even centuries, for research. One envies the sea-serpent, which is undoubtedly older than whales, older than the sequoias of California, much older than the Christian era. To judge by his length and the size of his armor plates, our dragon is centuries old. I said to Chueng Ching that I wished I could inhabit his body, and not only live indefinitely but also explore the ocean depths, learn his manners of living and perhaps find his relatives. Chueng Ching seemed startled rather than amused....

"Two months later. This morning Chueng Ching asked a terrific thing of me. He pleaded the growing decay of his flesh. His fingers are already numb. He believes that I could give him the magnificent body and strength of our sea-serpent, a thought suggested no doubt by those experimental tamperings of mine in college surgery, substituting the brains

of one rodent for those of another. But I could not do such a thing. Chueng Ching is a man, a brother to me, a fine mentality, a higher organism."

Willoughby ripped open his shirt, longing for a cooling breath on his skin. The shadow of the house-boy fell across his feet; the brown hands were twisting mutely. The page he had just read fell to the floor, and he seized the next.

"Chueng Ching has worked out an arrangement by which he is confident we can manage the operation. The steel net will confine the sea-serpent, a collar of steel will hold his head while I shoot ether from a spray-gun. The bench, the instruments, the cauterants, are ready. Only, I am afraid. If it were not that Chueng Ching's fingers and toes are already sloughing away, I could not do this thing. He pleads all day, and moans ali night. Tomorrow I shall be alone save for the house-boy Wi Wo and the boatman who is hired to call here at regular intervals.”

There was the rustling of the page which Willoughby crushed in tense fingers as he took it up, and the sound of his heavy breathing.

"Chueng Chin wakened with a great fear, although he assures me that he went under the anesthetic not only reconciled but even rejoicing in a resurrection of which he felt surer than I did. He felt no pain, only fear and the sense of a great weight dragging him down. No doubt the serpent body is not yet under control of nerve telegraphy of the mind. I attribute his fear to the same cause. Time will cure both troubles. Today, I made out the first of his attempts to communicate with me. There is no doubt he speaks, but I scarce understand his words, roared in that tremendous voice. I spent hours with him, and had Wi Wo fetch my meals. I asked questions to which he Could reply by a nod or shake of his great



crested head. What a pit } 7 those fools who ridiculed my assertions that seadragons do exist, cannot see this triumph!

"The vitality of Chueng Ching’s body is prodigious. He revived quickly from the ether. The leprous shell of my poor friend is in the ocean depths, sewn in canvas, weighted with iron. The sea will sing a requiem. But Chueng Ching is now invulnerable and magnificent. Nothing could harm that marvelously constructed coat of mail unless it is some device of man, the destroyer.”

Willoughby lifted his head and brushed his hand across his eyes. He was entering into horror that drilled his flesh, a nightmare he could not and would not believe. He abominated the crime of Denham, yet was fascinated.

"He will not take meat, yet we fed the sea-serpent he now inhabits, at regular intervals, on raw flesh. But since the change Chueng Ching will not touch it. No doubt the higher mentality of an esthete has subjugated the beast body. Today I prepared another roll of notes for the Royal College of Pekin, a rare collection of data which will receive consideration from Chinese savants that I could not wrest from my own people. Chueng Ching and I have proved the existence of sea-dragons and the ability of science through martyrdom to penetrate to the mysteries beneath the waters.”

W illoughby mopped his face. Wi Wo held a tray toward him and he took a bottle it held and poured himself a peg of brandy, then seized the next page.

"Chueng Ching is timid of the dark. His fear throttles our investigations. And much that he would impart is lost through my faulty understanding of his articulation. The curse of Babel rings down the ages. He breaks into Cantonese

in his endeavor to enlighten me. The finer details would be invaluable, but I hoped too greatly. I cannot understand his fear, and his rather pathetic regret at the loneliness he will find when I am dead. But one thing comforts me: he is taking food, and prefers rather undercooked chicken and pork. I must keep a stock on hand, as his appetite is prodigious....

"Six months since I last wrote these notes. Chueng Ching has furnished me with priceless specimens and data of the ocean depths, the notes of which I seal daily in metal tubes to be sent to Pekin. But I notice a change in him. While at first he was afraid of the depths, he now goes fearlessly and remains for a longer period each time. The silence down there must be fearful, but he seems to like exploring, and has even identified geographic indentations of continent shores, and recognizes the chill of polar seas....

"Three months from my last entry. ' Another period of change has come over Chueng Ching. The little fish spewed from his jaw's are spoiled by carelessness. Things are not going so well. There is a change of temperament and his articulation is thick. For a time he spoke clearly, although in a voice like a church organ. Now he roars in sullen rage when I refuse to feed him before I obtain an account of his wanderings. I believe it was a mistake to feed him flesh. Better to have left him to find sea-food only. I wonder if the brute body is in ascendance, or if meeting other monsters of his ow 7 n kind has upset him. He would know no means of communication w'ith them, and no methods of defense, but what a spectacle it would be to view a battle of seadragons! I wish it had been my lot to change from a human to this saurian. I am past middle age and the passions which plague a youuger man. Chueng Ching, who in his human shape was

LAOCOON


vowed to celibacy and had devoted his life to science, is seeking a mate. He was never more lucid than when he roared to me that he had found a 'sweetie’, the college slang of old days for a sweetheart, and demanded more food for strength he would need to fight off other males of his kind. With great sorrow, I must admit the end is in sight. He is indifferent to our researches and I gained nothing today but the account of this female seadragon, which seems coy and exhibits greater speed and endurance than Chueng Ching, as they tear through the depths, circling islands, lashing a riot of phosphorescence in the night. Oh, to see them! To find another and change from this body hampering me to a saurian like Chueng Ching!”

Cold sweat broke out on Willoughby’s forehead as he took the last sheet from the typewriter, and re-read the bit which had fascinated him a little while before.

He understood perfectly what Denham had written, of the change over this thing. The brute body had conquered the mind of Chueng Ching. The ferocity of the sea-dragon was in ascendance. He had turned on Denham, no longer obeying the voice of the scientist. The remainder of the page held no less of horror, a prophetic intimation of Denham’s fear.

"Chueng Ching is a fiend. He struck at me today with open jaws. I have sealed the complete notes to date, and addressed the results of my researches to the Royal College at Pekin, where they will act on the instructions to use the balance of Chueng Ching’s wealth to pursue this investigation in case anything should happen to me. But Willoughby has arrived, and I am confident that the skill he displayed in the science class can be enhanced by practise so that he can perform the operation 1 desire. Chueng

Ching laughed when I told him my plan, but promised to entice another male of his kind to the pool where Willoughby and I shall trap him by means of the iron-barred gateways dropped behind this sea-dragon we used as a body for the brain of Chueng Ching. I have not talked to Willoughby about it, but I noticed he seemed as well set up and fit as in college days. His reward shall be a share of Chueng Ching’s wealth, and the fame of ”

Willoughby crushed the sheet in his hand, every nerve in his body on edge, his breathing sounding loud in the silence. The chair crashed over as he rose and stared past Wi Wo at the curtained doorway. The embroidered dragons seemed to move with malignant life. And a more terrible dragon inhabited this place, the madness which had caught Denham and made of him a priest of more dreadful rites than voodoo of the jungles.

Willoughby realized now for what he had been summoned by the scientist. He must escape or be caught in a trap from which there was no escape. He would find Denham, and tell him that he was going; Denham was at that moment near the pool. Willoughby remembered the chickens he had been killing, and his words: "Chueng Ching, hungry again. Such gluttony!” He remembered the sound as of water threshed by storm. Denham feared the thing, yet he had gone to it again. He might be in danger of his life. Common decency demanded that Willoughby try to save the man. As for remaining under the conditions to be imposed, his body shivered as if with nausea at the thought.

Under the vine-covered pergola, he was startled by the sight of Wi Wo in his white ducks. The hand of the Chinese fell on his arm, the man’s teeth chattered like castanets. And above the



chattering and Willoughby’s breathing, came the sound of water crashing on rocks, threshed under flails of no wind that ever was.

W illoughby stalked down the pergola, gripping his courage in his hand, assuring himself the typing was the fantasy of a madman, and that the worst he would find would be Denham in the violence of insanity brought on by loneliness and the eery mystery of the island. The heelless slippers of Wi Wo shuffled reluctantly as they came near an iron door, with light from beyond shining through the space between heavy bars. Willoughby saw the lantern on the stone floor. Steps led down. There was the crash of waves subsiding gradually, and a low moaning audible.

Willoughby opened the iron door, snatched up the lantern and began to descend the steps. A cool wind swept upward, a smell of sea-wrack and cavern chill. He saw the oily luminance of water where the sea filled a natural cove. It was stirred as by violent upheaval from beneath. The rock ledge below glistened with minute sea life. He saw something resembling a huge horse-collar slung to iron rings in the cavern roof, and a steel net dependent from ropes, the apparatus of that operation performed on the seadragon. Along one side was a litter of things scarcely discernible by the faint lanternlight.

With his scalp prickling, Willoughby held the lantern at arm’s length, to learn what manner of gigantic bird it was thaf ran to and fro on the ledge, uttering squawks of fear which the cavern echoed. He saw a heap of dead chickens on the ledge; then a movement of Wi Wo caught his eye. The Chinese was retreating up the steps, backward, his eyes staring at the pool, his hands groping along

the rock wall. Willoughby looked again at the pool, straining his vision to see what had thralled Wi Wo and turned his yellow skin green with terror.

It came like gushing light in the depths, stirring the black water, a radiance of glittering unrest, undulating flitter and shadow, faintly phosphorescent; then coils broke a moving swirl in the gloom.

Willoughby turned to run up the steps. The breath of Wi Wo hissed between his teeth. There was the silken slur of water washing the rock, and in another moment Willoughby was crowding the Chinese on the steps, for the water parted and a crested head was upreared, water dripping from fanged jaws, red tongue quivering, large glassy eyes regarding the two men on the steps with malevolent glaring. Coils of a serpent body upreared. Willoughby saw the great scales like iridescent metal plates. There was that threshing hiss of water, tremendous in the cavern walls. Willoughby’s heart was pounding in his throat and wrist. Fear paralyzed him.

Then he screamed. From that great throat came a roar that swelled and boomed, and in that sound Willoughby heard unmistakably the name of "Denham” howled in wrath.

His own scream seemed to be echoed by the flapping white thing on the ledge. For the first time he realized that he had lost the chance for what he came to do: to save Denham. That was Denham — that mad disheveled thing clad in white ducks which was bent nearly double, waving its coat-tail over its head. It stood erect, laughing horribly.

"Chueng Ching,” it called, "did you bring your sea-dragon? See, Willoughby is here, Willoughby who will make me invulnerable so we can rove the deeps together....”

The rest was drowned in that howl of

the sea-dragon, a burst of laughter boomed through a gigantic throat, and the crested head swooped at Denham. The sea leaped, a wave shot by those armored coils crashed up the steps and over Willoughby. The lantern fell from his numbed fingers, the sea was in his mouth.

Then he felt the hands of Wi Wo clutching him. They were crouched in a heap on the steps. The pool was dark and the seas fell quiet. Willoughby felt his way a few steps lower and saw the outer archway of the cove. Dawn had bloomed, early tropic dawn shone silver. The ledge was empty. Denham had disappeared.

Willoughby turned and pushing the terrified Chinese before him went up the steps, clanging and bolting the iron door.

He strode through the house, looked at the sealed tube of notes addressed ready to send, and at the typed account of Denham’s crime. Then he went to the porch.

A voice at his shoulder startled him: "You got one piecee ship, I go out ’long you.” The plaintive wail was chattered through quivering lips.

"Come on,” snapped Willoughby and ran down the path.

Along the palisade sauntered the Chinese boatman. Willoughby took money from his pocket and offered it.

"Take us back to port,” he commanded. "Quick!”

Polaris

( Continued from page 751) shake off this unnatural dream of a house of stone and brick south of a sinister swamp and a cemetery on a low hillock; the Pole Star, evil and monstrous, leers down from the black vault, winking hideously like an insane watching eye which strives to convey some message, yet recalls nothing save that it once had a message to convey.

NOW you can travel round the world with the most daring adventurers. You can see, with your own eyes, the weirdest peoples on earth. You witness the strangest customs of the red, white, brown, black, and yellow races. You attend their startling rites, their mysterious practices. They are all assembled for you in these five huge volumes of The Secret Museum of Mankind.

WORID'S GREATEST COLLECTION OF SECRET PHOTOGRAPHS

Here is the World's Greatest Collection of Strange and Secret Photographs. Exotic Photos, Harem Photos, Torture Photos, Female Photos, Fetish Photos and hundreds of others. There are almost 600 LARGE PAGES of photographs, each page being 62 square Inches in size!


You see savage love and courtship in every quarter of Africa, Europe, Asia,

America and Oceania. You see Oriental tortures and female slavery in Annum, Bhutan, Nepal, Oman, Sinkang, and other qifeer places where the foot of a white man has rarely trod. Through the intimacy of the camera you go sight-seeing in China and Japan, in India, and In a thousand other places.

These live Immense volumes (conveniently hound together) contain OVER A THOUSAND LARGE PHOTOGRAPHS. And you gaze at the gorgeous beauty of 130 full-page photos, each one over 37 square inches in size I


Dip into any one of these large volumes, and as you turn its dazzling pages, you will find it difficult to tear yourself away. You will be bewildered at these startling photographs, absorbed in the short stories that accompany them. You actually witness Cannibal Rites, Mysterious Orgies, Female Beauty Round the World, Voo-doo Religions, Weird Customs, Tropical Dress and Undress, etc. These hundreds of large pages will give you days and nights of thrilling entertainment and instruction, and make your friends envious of your knowledge.

Specimen Photos Nudity Round the World Savage Love and Courtship Witchcraft in Melanesia Marriage by Purchase Harem Life and Types Murder by Cannibal Magio Female-Slave Hunters Mystery Rituals Civilized Love vs. Savage Arawak Natives of Nature Undraped Beauties of Bali Flagellants of Philippines Polygamy among Primitives and 1,000 other Secret Photos

Volume 1

The Secret Museum of Africa Volume 2 The Secret Museum of Europe Volume 3 The Secret Museum, of Asia Volume 4 The Secret Museum of America Volume 5 The Secret Museum of Oceania

METRO PUBLICATIONS,

70 5th Ave., Dept. 1911, New York Gentlemen:

Send me “The Secret Museum of Mankind'* '5 large volumes bound together). I will pay pustman $1.98, plus postage on arrival. If In 5 days I am not more than delighted, I will return the hook and you will refund my $1.98. (No foreign orders accepted at this low price! )

Name

Address

City

[ ] Check here if you are enclosing $1. mailing costs.

State

98, thus saving the


Each volume, of 5 volume sot, is 9 % inches high, and opened, over a foot wide! Bound in expensive "life-time” linen. Contents identical with former $10 edition. SEND NO MONEY. JuBt mail rounon with name and address today.

W E TAKE pleasure in calling the attention of our readers to a new feature that we are inaugurating this month: a series of full-page pictures by Virgil Finlay, illustrating famous weird passages of verse. The first of these is based on a passage from George Sterling’s A Wine of Wizardry — a passage so striking that Ambrose Bierce gave it rank alongside those famous passages from Coleridge’s Kubla Khan and Keats’s Ode to a Nightingale which Dante Gabriel Rossetti called the two Pillars of Hercules of modern human imagination. One of these Finlay illustrations will appear in each issue. He will draw his subjects from the whole realm of weird literature. Poe’s melancholy Raven will appear here, and the angel Israfel, "whose heartstrings are a lute;” the Weird Sisters from Shakespeare’s Macbeth; the Belle Dame Sans Merci of Keats; Longfellow’s grisly Skeleton in Armor; Burns’s Tam o’ Shanter pursued by the warlocks; and many other gems of weird literature. Let us know what you think of this feature.

Here It Is

Gertrude Hemken, of Chicago, writes: "Once again I present myself in epistleform. This time with thanks to David H. Keller for his Tiger Cat — the leddy in the tale had a fine way of getting revenge for that sad instance in New York — I appreciate Doctor Keller’s finesse in letting the readers know how a woman can feel about being mistreated. One would almost believe a woman had written the story. I am all in sympathy with the Tiger Cat, although her demise did not sadden me.... Icky- — one of those slimy tales — and by HPL — wooeey! The Shunned House was something far beyond my imagination. The more I read of

Lovecraft’s works, the more I see in them the modern Poe — by his minute detail of every angle — the history of the family which built the house — the exact description of the plot of ground in which this ancient dwelling stood (a person could almost draw a map of the site) — on such things I find HPL so very like Poe. I caught myself gasping a bit when reading of the containers of sulfur being emptied on that blasphemous slime and of the resulting fumes. Dear me, how awful it would be if such really happened! (And then the question comes to my mind that perhaps it did occur.) Although The Homicidal Diary was not the type of tale I now associate Earl Peirce, Jr., with, I did find it fascinating — very. What strange things dreams can do to one — and what strange dreams a person can have — and what strange things hypnosis can make one do. Gruesome? Yes — retch ingly so. But why can’t we have another on the order of The Last Archer? What about it, EP? Well, now, lemme see — dunno just what to say about The Long Arm — the whole thing just sorta disappointed me — wasn’t quite nasty enough for my gluttonous taste. Gosh, I’m getting to be a real fiend. Thrills and adventure galore — do I like this Lake of Life! Am looking forward to the next installment and then for more yarns like it. Darkest Africa holds so many strange secrets — I find it more fascinating than the Orient. Mr. Hamilton has me on my toes wondering what the Guardians are and what force they have released on the ring of mountains to discharge instant death to trespassers. Wellman writes the most curious tales of the oddest things coming to life — well, sort of a tangible existence. Last time it was a parchment — now it’s fat and bulging cherubs that just ain’t cherubs. Nasty things, weren’t they? Here Lies was a laugh-getter



— but! — what was so weird about it? Is my mind getting dull? The outstanding story in this month’s issue — to me — was your reprint of Rich’s The Purple Cincture. I could see those terrible glowing colors — angry colors — I could see them so plainly and could see the suffering of those afflicted — my nerves twitched as though that searing pain were severing my foot and hand — I didn’t dare think of my neck. Now for the Eyrie — I can add no more to your answer to G. M. Wilson on his astonishing accusation — the very idea of him — how dare he do such to WT! — my gawsh — he doesn’t read the magazine thoroughly enough. Good gosh — if a person is going to read WT with a grain of salt, how the deuce can he get any pleasure out of it? The idea is to leave one’s mind open to all possibilities and forget how it’s gonna end — the day is past and gone when the fair-haired boy rescued the beauteous maiden from a fate worse than death just in the nick of time. Some stories must end that way, but the people these days demand variety — and variety is what they get. One time the hero or she-hero dies or is overcome — next time they escape, but not unscathed — and mebbe the third time they run true to the old-fashioned style. If GMW has any old copies of WT and should he glance through them, he will find that he has been very unjust. I can say no more. Reginald A. Pryke of Kent, England, writes so grandly of Howard what I have never been able to express. Should I never keep a copy of WT — I’d keep this one for the fine tribute he has paid Howard and his incomparable creations of mankind. Let me take this opportunity to thank Mr. Pryke for a fine letter — I’ve read few as good in the Eyrie. Once again I ask — who is WC, Jr.? Sort of a WT Walter Winchell? — eh wot? I liked the random biography WC, Jr., gives of Clifford Ball — it’s such things as these that we readers want to know of the authors — just bits of human news which we know will make them seem more real to us. Will we have more of such inside stuff — please?”

From a Spanish Friend

Jorge Thuillier writes from Havana, Cuba: "I have been a reader of Weird Tales for several years. I read it every month in Spain, my native country, and now that the great Spanish tragedy has driven me out of my home and to this island, I have

Man Can Now Talk With God


”A new and revolutionary religious teaching based entirely on the misunderstood sayings of the Galilean Carpenter, and designed to show how we may find, understand and use the same identical power which Jesus used in performing His socalled Miracles," is attracting world wide attention to its founder. Dr. Frank B. Robinson, noted psychologist, author and lecturer.

"Psychiana,” this new psychological religion, believes and teaches that it is today possible for every normal human being, understanding spiritual law as Christ understood it, "to duplicate every work that the Carpenter of Galilee ever did” — it believes and teaches that when He said, "the things that I do shall ye do also,” He meant what He said and meant it literally to all mankind, through all the ages.

Dr. Robinson has prepared a 6000 word treatise on "Psychiana," in which he tells about his long search for the Truth, how he finally came to the full realization of an Unseen Power or force "so dynamic in itself that all other powers and forces fade into insignificance beside it” — how he learned to commune directly with the Living God, using this mighty, never-failing power to demonstrate health, happiness and financial success, and how any normal being may find and use it as Jesus did. He is now offering this treatise free to every reader of this magazine who writes him.

If you want to read this "highly interesting, revolutionary and fascinating story of the discovery of a great Truth,” just send your name and address to Dr. Frank B. Robinson, 418 12th St., Moscow, Idaho. It will be sent free and postpaid without cost or obligation. Write the Doctor today. — Copyright, 1935, Dr. Frank B. Robinson.

A new thriller by <

SEABURY QUINN appears in WEIRD TALES i

i

every month <

kA

Subscribe to Weird Tales



kept on reading it here, as enthusiastically as there. I never wrote to you before, mainly because the great distance between our countries discouraged me, but also because I think all these readers’ letters must be a bore to you. So I shall be brief. I only want to congratulate you for the ever increasing quality of your magazine, which now stands as unique in its kind. Being an artist, though not a professional one, I am really delighted by the very good drawings that illustrate the stories. I wish to congratulate Madam Brundage in particular, for the splendid picture she made for the October issue. The girl is the most fascinating representation of a woman I have ever seen. You forget the ghastly thing she is doing, when you look at her loveliness. Generally speaking, the whole magazine is a priceless gift for all lovers of the unusual and weird. I hope I shall be able to read it for many years to come.”

Orchids to Mr. Pryke

Pete Thompson, of Seattle, writes: "My first fan letter. I have been reading Weird Tales for about three years off and on and really think you have finally reached the acme of perfection. Tiger Cat by D. H. Keller was tops in the October issue, as was The Homicidal Diary.... Orchids to you, my dear Reginald A. Pryke of Kent, England — your harangue on reasons for not reviving Conan, or any of the other brain children of our past master WT authors, hits the spot. Really I’ve wanted to say the same things. Thanks for putting into words what I’ve wanted to but lacked the ability.”

Poe Outshone

George W. Skora, of Tucson, Arizona, writes: "A devoted reader of weird and science fiction, I have been reading Weird Tales for the last eight years. Although I am a singularly imaginative person, I do not read our magazine for the revolting, shuddery, terrifying aspect of its stories, but for the occasional tales, becoming more numerous of late, which translate me, mind and body, to some other age, or to some other world, where I can indulge my fancy in sword’s-play, in adventure, in the mystery, romance, and superstition of another time or another dimension. Perhaps such reading forms an escape for me from reality and allows me, in my mind at least, to indulge

and participate in the action of other periods. I am most grateful to Weird Tales for doing this for me. And these modern masters of weird fiction so far outshine Poe and his contemporaries that there is absolutely no comparison. It is as though a twenty-watt bulb were expected to shine the dazzling light of a carbon arc. Such tales as Shamhleau, The Three Marked Pennies, The Black God’s Kiss, all the barbaric adventures of Conan the Cimmerian, of Jirel of Joiry, of King Kull, and such others as the fascinating Globe of Memories, The Last Pharaoh, which was one of tire greatest stories I have ever read, Red Nails, the masterful Clicking Red Heels, The Carnal God, The Hounds of Tindalos, all of the Northwest Smith stories, and in the present issue, the best of the Jules de Grandin stories, ' I believe, Pledged to the Death, which impressed me very favorably, all of these and numerous others will live for ever in my imagination, and I often go back and read them over to recapture their mood. Weird fiction has lost perhaps its two greatest masters, Howard Phillips Lovecraft and Robert E. Howard, and with them the heroes which they created have died. No more will Conan the barbarian fight from one end to the other of those mysterious half-legendary lands, no more will he woo and win fair maidens in his inimitable fashion, no more will he defy warrior and king alike, for the master pen which created him is no more and with that passing Conan is likewise gone for ever. I cannot conceive of his being recreated by anyone with the mastery of Robert E. Howard, and hence would rather see Conan dead as he had lived, a fighting-man who perished as he would have wished, sword in hand, the grim smile of desperate battle on his lips, in his ears the din of clashing blade and shouting men who felt its cunning edge. That world of his is gone. It would be blasphemy to attempt the rebuilding from dead ashes. And in closing, let me mention one more story which I will long remember: The Fire of Asshurbanipal, a thrilling story if ever there was one. On rereading this letter, I once more feel the futility of mere words to say the things or express the thoughts that I really feel. You have one of the finest magazines, one of the finest staffs of artists and authors, of any publishing company in this country. And I do not say this with intention of flattery. I really mean



it and with sincerity. I would buy Weird Tales if it were a dollar a copy, much as it would strain my pocketbook. I have no faults to find other than the desire that Brundage would give us an occasional brunette on the cover of the mag, and I would personally like to see one cover in black and white merely for the striking effect it would give.”

Like Rare Old Wine

Natalie Rockwell, of Syracuse, New York, writes: "How does an ungrateful little

wench like myself express her gratitude for the really great pleasure you’ve given her in your incomparable magazine, WT? I’ve been reading your mag. for years (tho’ I’m only 18), but I’ve never screwed up enough courage to tell you about it. Just finished your October issue to the accompaniment of a luscious thunderstorm. I always try to keep from reading it 'till I have the proper atmosphere. (It’s a darned hard job tho’ not to take a little peek at the intriguing book waiting my pleasure on the table.) The Lake of Life and Pledged to the Dead are tops in that issue. I’ve always liked Jules anyway. He seems to be so human and lovable. Now, even if this is my first letter, may I please make one little criticism? Brundage’s gals are really delightful in form and coloring, and I love to copy them to see how nearly I can approximate her figures — but — her expressions are so terribly monotonous. I always know just what the faces will look like before I see the cover. It’s the eyes that do the dirty work. No horror, no nothing in them. They look as tho’ they were all poured from the same mold. Please, please for the sake of those who like to see really expressive features, put some life in the eyes. Now I’ve finished my ranting and raving and can only sit and wistfully think of the next WT that’s so far away. Give us more and more weird, woeful tales of the same excellent quality of the past. Your mag. is like good wine that mellows with age and leaves a better taste every time it’s quaffed.

Trudy, Beware of Oliver!

Henry Kuttner writes from Beverly Hills, California: "My vote for the best story in the October WT goes to Here Lies, a deBACK COPIES

Because of the many requests for back issues of Weird Tales, the publishers do their best to keep a sufficient supply on hand to meet all demands. This magazine was established early in 1923 and there has been a steady drain on the supply of back copies ever since. At present, we have the following back numbers on hand for sale:







Jan.

Jan.

Jan.

Jan.

Feb.

Feb.

Feb.

Feb.

Feb.

Mar.

Mar.

Mar.

Mar.

Apr.

Apr.

Apr.

Apr.

May

May

May

May

June

June

June

June

June

July

July

July

July

July

Aug.

....

Sept.

Sept.

Sept.

Sept.

Oct.

Oct.

Oct.

Oct.

Nov.

Nov.

Nov.

Nov.

Nov.

• •••

Dec.

Dec.

Dec.

These back numbers contain many fascinating stories. If you are interested in obtaining any of the back copies on this list please hurry your order because we can not guarantee that the list will be as complete as it now is within the next 30 days. The price on all back issues is 25c per copy. Mail all orders to:


840 N. Michigan Ave. Chicago, Illinois, U. S. A.



lightfully satirical little piece; and I especially liked the illustrations for The Shunned House and The Long Arm. Trudy Hemken’s reference to my bad grammar did not pass unnoticed, and Trudy may expect a call from Oliver, my pet ghoul, some fine evening. He told me he thought he’d drop in for a bite.”

It Happened One Night

Manly Wade Wellman writes from New York City: "Mr. Joseph Allen Ryan’s letter in October WT, anent the idea back of my short story. The Terrible Parchment, impels me to give die real genesis of the thing — even more unusual than Mr. Ryan’s account. The idea came to me all of a sudden, rather late one night. I sat down at once and wrote it out roughly, with my apartment for setting and my wife and myself for characters. It was almost morning when I wrote 'The End,’ and I laid it aside, then polished it up the following evening. After that I took it to Julius Schwartz, my agent. With him was Mort Weisinger. They glanced over the story, and their mouths fell open. 'Look here,’ diey said, both at once. ’Not five days

ago we were discussing ’ After that they

told the story Mr. Ryan tells, of how they imagined the Necronomicon materializing through the combined mental effort of many readers of Lovecraft’s tales. Yet neidier had communicated with me, as both will be ready to testify. We laughingly decided it was a case of thought-transference — an unconscious mental message sent and received. I wonder if anybody has a better explanation.”

A Conte Cruel

J. Vernon Shea, Jr., of Pittsburgh, writes: "The October number is another good issue. I read The Shunned House with a feeling of sadness, for the many references to Providence made it seem a post-delayed letter from H. P. L. The story is not quite of his best, for it has the over-slow approach and the lingering on technicalities that marked some of his iast work; nevertheless, the culmination is startling, and the artistry veritably impeccable. I doubt if any of your writers will ever quite attain the high standard of Lovecraft at his best. Tiger Cat is one of the best things Doctor Keller has done, but the story falls into the genre of the conte cruel rather than of the weird tale proper.

Nowadays the conte cruel is a little passe, for the horrors of war narrated in any newspaper far surpass the artificial horrors. Quinn’s tale is better than usual, almost in the vein of his The Phantom Farmhouse; Wellman again rings the bell with The Golotha Dancers, and Habl’s The Long Arm is ifferent. More European writers should be represented in Weird Tales. I read with distaste Peirce’s The Homicidal Diary, an hysterical and cheap melodrama; to demonstrate its inadequacy, compare it with Mrs. Belloc Lownde’s brilliant handling of a similar theme, The Lodger, or with such motion pictures as M and Night Must Fall. It occurs to me that the Eyrie readers might be interested in some statistics. For instance, which writer has appeared most frequently in WT? Quinn? Derleth? Howard? Why not give a chart, listing the most printed writers, and giving such data as number of serials, number of novelettes, number of short stories, number of 'short shorts,’ number of poems, number of reprints?” [We fear that such statistical data would interest only a select few of our readers, and would take up space that could otherwise be used for stories. — The Editor.]

Happy vs. Unhappy Endings

Clifton Hall, of Los Angeles, writes: "I thought the second part of Hamilton’s new serial, The Lake of Life, was the best story in the October number. It reminds one a little of a dime thriller, but makes fascinating reading. Tiger Cat, by Keller, stands second, in my estimation, although I think it was a mistake to reveal the nature of the cellar’s contents by means of the blurb and the two illustrations. Third spot, I think, should go to Quinn’s Pledged to the Dead. However, I have one criticism to make in connection with the de Grandin series: if I’d had as many dozen hair-raising experiences with creatures from another world as Trowbridge has had, I don’t think I’d have to be convinced during every new adventure that 'such things are possible.’ Yet I cannot recall a de Grandin story in which the Frenchman has not had to argue for some minutes with his skeptical friend before the latter realizes that the improbable is not necessarily the impossible. Lovecraft’s last was okay, I guess, but I didn’t think the climax stupendous enough to justify the long and at times tedious building-up procWEIRD TALES


ess. The Homicidal Diary I considered to be the best of the others. The orange-haired creature on the cover stood out brightly against the dark background — an arresting bit of work. But how about another Finlay cover? It’s been four months since his last. And now for G. M. Wilson, who says that Weird Tales is not an interesting book because everyone knows that everything will come out hunky-dory! I checked back over the stories — exactly 90 of them, including reprints — that have appeared in the ten issues dated 1937, and found out a surprizing fact. The" 1 was an exact split — 45-45 — between the happy and unhappy endings! Of course, it was difficult to definitely place many yarns in either classification, but in the end the advantage lay on neither side. It is improbable that in any other magazine can you find such an amazing balance in endings.”

The October Issue

Julius Hopkins, of Washington, D. C., writes: "The October WT is a real treat for any lover of weird fiction. Two excellent stories vie closely for first place, namely: The Shunned House by H. P. Lovecraft and The Homicidal Diary by Earl Peirce, Jr. I am giving the slim edge to Mr. Peirce because in his story the horror is still at large and, furthermore, is of great current interest because actually the famous Cleveland beheader has not been captured yet, and not even any clues as to his identity have been found. The Homicidal Diary is written in plain convincing language and certainly does make your heart beat fast, especially in that scene where Jason Carse is rapidly becoming over-excited and the sharp butcher knife is close at hand. That’s a real spine-chilling scene for you. The Shunned House is another typical Lovecraft tale written as only H. P. L. could ever have done it. The slow summation of facts builds a solid foundation for the surprize ending. Tire big horrible surprize, though so terrible it seems unbelievable, becomes a reality under the masterful handling of this marvelous writer who has sadly passed on into die great beyond. I award second place to The Shunned House, but this time second place is really a second first place. For third place I pick The Long Arm by Franz Habl. I enjoyed this yarn because it is something a bit different and it leaves in your mind the question of whether

The Cream of Weird Fiction

® Weird Tales prints the best weird fiction in the world today. The high literary quality of its stories is evidenced by the comparatively large number of stories from Weird Tales that have been reprinted or awarded honorable mention in annual best fiction anthologies. You are assured of reading the best when you read Weird Tales, The Unique Magazine.



Authors 9 Service

MANUSCRIPTS WANTED. Books, Stories, Plays and Articles for placement in U. S. and foreign countries. Motion picture rights placed. Circular T-1237 describing UNIFIED SALES PLAN free on request. OTIS ADELBERT KLINE. Authors’ and Publishers' Representative, 430 W. 34th St., New York City.

Books

FOUR CLEVER BOOKS 15c each. “Will Rogers’ Jokes and Witticisms.” “The Art of Dancing.” “Knock Knock Book.” “Simplified Card Tricks.” All four books 50c prepaid. Send for them now. Gco.i Freas, 820 KImber St., Camden, N. J.

THE MOON TERROR — A stupendous weird-scientific novel of Oriental intrigue to gain control of the world! Cloth-bound with handsome colored jacket — 50 cents postpaid. WEIRD TALES, 840 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago.

Business Opportunities

NEWSPAPER clippings pay. Write: Goodall Company, 742 Market St., San Francisco.

NEED MONEY. Practical opportunities for everybody.' 3c stamp brings reply. Write today. Quality Products Co., P. Q. Box 164, Hampton, Va.

Farm and Garden

BULBS FREE I To spread the fame of our bulbs everywhere, we will send you FREE a nice assortment of HYACINTHS, TULIPS, NARCISSI, IRISES, CROCUS, etc., 350 bulbs in all, all guaranteed to flower next spring and summer. It suffices to send us for carriage, packing, etc., a one-dollar note by registered letter, and to mention your name and full address in block letters. Please do not send coins or stamps, and kindly mention that you saw the advertisement in “Weird Tales” magazine. Dispatch carriage paid all over the world without increase in price. JAN VAN GALEN, Bulb Grower, VOGELENZANG near Haarlem, Holland, Europe.

Indian Belies

INDIAN RELICS. Bead work. Coins. Stamps. Minerals. Books. Old West Photos. Weapons. Curios.- Temple Mound Birdpoint 15c. Knife, ancient, 15c. Catalogue 5c. In dian Museu m, Northbranch, Kansas.’

Miscellaneous

WHO IS THE MYSTERIOUS “ITWO”? The solution to this baffling mystery is thrillingly told in one of the most startling stories ever written — THE MOON TERROR, in book form. Price 50c. WEIRD TALES, 840 North Michigan, Chicago, Illinois.

7 66


or not Banaotovitch is still alive. That’s the kind of a thrill I like.”

Hamilton’s Serial

B. M. Reynolds, of North Adams, Massachusetts, writes: "You were certainly fortunate in securing that splendid yarn The Lake of Life by Edmond Hamilton, an exceptional piece of fantasy of the A. Merritt type, worthy of taking its place beside those two fine fantastic novels: Williamson's Golden Blood and Kelley’s The Last Pharaoh. I believe that these stories will always be remembered by us, the readers.... Second best story in September was The Ho-HoKam Horror. Stories of this type are particularly effective when written in diary form, and Mr. Bryan did a good job with this one. Good build-up and abrupt ending. Not a bit far-fetched, either, as Superstition Mountain, the heaven of the rattlesnakes, is a very real and tangible locality, as any Pueblo or Navajo Indian will attest, and the place is most certainly ’taboo,’ at least for the white man. Psychopompos by the late genius H. P. Lovecraft was certainly unique, serving to make us realize still more the great talent that was lost by his untimely death.... Oh yes, I nearly forgot to compliment Henry Kuttner on H. P. L., his grand tribute to Lovecraft, the finest piece of poetry since Howard wrote A Song Out of Mid tan about ten years ago!”

End of the Abyss

J. A. Murphy, of Augusta, Georgia, writes: "My, my, now just look what you have gone and done! Last month upon reading The Abyss Under the World I just knew that you had found another one that could be placed with the best of them. I went by the news stand every day or two waiting for the September issue to come in, and when I did get it, I had to read the finis of The Abyss Under the World before I even came home. And what do I find upon reading it but that you let J. Paul Suter go and put an ending like that on it! Why does anyone have to be like that? Now if they had really been transplanted into another world, and had followed the priest in his jump into the abyss, I think everyone would have been happier, because there would have been more thrills to come.”

STATEMENT OF THE OWNERSHIP, MANAGEMENT, CIRCULATION, ETC., REQUIRED BY THE ACT OF CONGRESS OF AUGUST 24, 1912,

Of Weird Tales, published monthly at Indianapolis Indiana, for October 1, 1937.

State of Illinois 1 County of Cook / sa -

Before me, a notary public in and for the State and county aforesaid, personally appeared Wm. R. Sprenger, who, having been duly sworn according to law, deposes and says that he is the Business Manager of the Weird Tales and that the following is, to the best of his knowledge and belief, a true statement of the ownership, management (and if a daily paper, the circulation), etc., of the aforesaid publication for the date shown in the above caption required by the Act of August 24, 1912, embodied in section 411, Postal Laws and Regulations, printed on the reverse of this form, to wit:

1. That the names and addresses of the publisher, editor, managing editor, and business manager are:

Publisher — Popular Fiction Publishing Company, 2457 E. Washington St., Indianapolis, Ind.

Editor — Farnsworth Wright, 840 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago, 111.

Managing Editor — None.

Business Manager — William R. Sprenger, 840 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago, 111.

2. That the owner is: (If owned by a corporation, its name and address must be stated and also immediately thereunder the names and addresses of stockholders owning or holding one per cent or more of total amount of stock. If not owned by a corporation, the names and addresses of the individual owners must be given. If owned by a Arm, company, or other unincorporated concern, its name and address, as well as those of each individual member must be given.)

Popular Fiction Publishing Company, 2457 E. Washington St., Indianapolis, Ind.

Wm. R. Sprenger, 840 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago, 111.

Farnsworth Wright, 840 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago, III.

George M. Cornelius, 2457 E. Washington St., Indianapolis, Indiana.

George II. Cornelius, 2457 E. Washington St., Indianapolis, Indiana.

P. W. Cornelius, 2457 E. Washington St., Indianapolis, Indiana.

3. That the known bondholders, mortgagees, and other security holders owning or holding 1 per cent or more of total amount of bonds, mortgages, or other securities are: (If there are none, so state). None.

4. That the two paragraphs next above, giving the names of the owners, stockholders, and security holders, if any, contain not only the list of stockholders and security holders as they appear upon the books of the company, but also, in cases where the stockholder or security holder appears upon the books of the company as trustee or in any other fiduciary relation, the name of the person or corporation for whom such trustee is acting, is given; also that the said two paragraphs contain statements embracing affiant’s full knowledge and belief as to the circumstances and conditions under which stockholders and security holders who do not appear upon the books of the company as trustees, hold stock and securities in a capacity other than that of a bona fide owner; and this affiant has no reason to believe that any other person, association, or corporation has any interest, direct or indirect, in the said stock, bonds, or other securities than as so stated by him.

5. That the average number of copies of each issue of this publication sold or distributed, through the mails or otherwise, to paid subscribers during the twelve months preceding the date shown above

is (This information is required from

daily publications only.)

WM. R. SPRENGER, Business Manager.

Sworn to and subscribed before me this 23d day ofi September, 1937. J. G. WING,

[SEAL] Notary Public.

My commission expires February 15, 1940..



Random Notes by W. C., Jr.

What a break for the Washington Weird Tales Club! Seabury Quinn, who reads the fashion magazines so his heroines may be clothed stylishly, is shipping the furniture from Brooklyn to Washington.... As if to compensate for the Old Marster’s absence from die skyscraper city, Earl Peirce, Jr., and Bruce Bryan may migrate to NYC, taking up writing as a regular profession.... H. P. Lovecraft’s Psychopompos, "a tale in rime,” was one of his earliest efforts, dating from 1917.... Virgil Finlay seldom uses models, but refers occasionally to photographs to get the right effect in picturing various textures. Virgil was born in Rochester, New York, twenty-three years ago. His first attempt at drawing occurred at the tender age of three, when the magnificently limned equine of his imagination was labeled "doggy” by his mother. He attended several grammar schools in and about Rochester; and his first real claim to fame was established when block-print caricatures of his teachers were reproduced in the John Marshall High School paper. He studied at Mechanics Institute classes and the gallery in Rochester. He has exhibited in oils, pen and ink, pencil, and block-print, and also works in tempera, transparent water color, charcoal, wood-cut, stone, chalk, and clay — preferring pen and ink to them all. Virgil is a quiet young man, unmarried, with a serious face that often lights up with a broad smile. Athletics in earlier years won him a fourteen-inch bicep and stubby, powerful fingers. He often spends two or three days on a single drawing for Weird Tales, beginning work around noon and ceasing only when dawn tinges the night sky. A dreamless sleep then shuts him from the material world until noon again, when he repeats the process. He has a keen sense of humor. And the way he plays practical jokes on his fellow Weirdists! For instance: Clifford Ball once stated in a letter to the Eyrie, previous to publication of his first story, that the ridiculous theme of a woman’s being captured and carried off by a giant ape was passe. With this in mind, Virgil selected that particular scene in illustrating Ball’s Thief of Forthe!... What is perhaps his most famous drawing, the strange, dark illustration for Robert Bloch’s The Faceless God, was the result of a dilemma: In the story there was little action which could be portrayed graphically,


The

Hairy Ones Shall Dance

By Gans T. Field

ASTRANGE story is this — the story of • a stage magician whose investigations of spirit seances precipitated him into the midst of an astounding situation. It is a tale of terror and sudden death, a tale of the hideous, stark horror that struck during a seance, a tale of the frightful thing that laired in the Devil’s Croft.

T his is an unusual story indeed, and one that will hold your interest throughout by the spell of its weird happenings. This shuddery novel will begin

in the January issue of


on sale December 1st

To avoid missing your copy, dip and mail this coupon today for SPECIAL SUBSCRIPTION OFFER, j ^.-issZii (You Save 25c) — -

840 N. Michigan Ave.

Chicago, lil.

Enclosed find $1.00, for which send me the next five issues of WEIRD TALES, to begin with the January issue. (Special offer void unless remittance is accompanied by coupon.)

Name

Address

City

State.



so as the only alternative Virgil took lines which Bloch had used purely as atmosphere! Virgil’s favorites among his own drawings— of which he has done more than one hundred for Farnsworth Wright, including the Shakespeare work — include those for Seabury Quinn’s Witch-House, Pearl Norton Swet’s The Medici Boots, and of course Bloch’s The Faceless God. He considers his conception of Sterling’s vampire (in this issue) about the best he has done for WT, and is most enthusiastic over the poetry series it introduces. He is a Shakespeare and Milton fan. He generally does considerable research and experimentation in preparing for any particularly difficult piece of work. Before painting the cover for Speer’s Symphony of the Damned, he modeled the three figures in clay and played lights on them from below in order to get the correct lighting effect.... Paintings and other samples of the media he employs are to be seen everywhere in the Finlay residence. His studio, of course, is full of them. An excellent portrait of his mother adorns the upper hallway, and still-life paintings hang downstairs in parlor and dining-room. The attic shelters a whole flock of them, while scores of drawings rest under tables and benches in the wood-working shop outside. The bathroom chest-of-drawers resembles a portable art gallery.... Virgil is a favorite correspondent of many notables in the fantasy field, as evidenced by the remarks they have passed in letters to me. To them he is weirdly known as "Monstro Ligriv.” His highschool nickname was, curiously, "Hyphen”— an abbreviated form of the salutation, "Hi, Finlay!" He says his biggest thrill came when an old Italian he knew, after seeing some of Virgil’s drawings, turned his back and crossed himself.

Concise Comments

Richard F. Jamison, of Valley Park, Missouri, writes: "If anyone is fated to equal Lovecraft’s genius Henry Kuttner is that man. His stories have that indescribable something that every truly weird story must have.”

Jean Van Wissink, of Chicago, writes: "If all pages of the October issue but those of The Dike of Life had been blank, I’d still have had my money’s worth! Edmond Hamilton seems especially worth hanging on to.”

R. N. Nicholaieff, of Chicago, writes: "Lovecraft’s The Shunned House rates first place in the October issue. I read this tale three times just because I liked the way it was written. Lovecraft was indeed a master of weird fiction.”

Seymour Kapetansky, of Detroit, writes: "No two writing styles could have been further apart than those of H. P. Lovecraft and Robert E. Howard, yet both were masters of weird fantasy. It’s lucky we have such talented writers as Henry Kuttner and Robert Bloch to carry on.”

A. V. Pershing, of Anderson, Indiana, writes: "Hamilton’s The Lake of Life is weird and extremely interesting. As fine as he already is, he’s getting better.”

Edward Landberg, of Brooklyn, writes: "In 1931-32 you published two reprint novels, Frankenstein by Mrs. Shelley and The W olf -Leader by Dumas, of which the readers disapproved. You then stated that you would cease to publish serial reprints. That was a mistake. If you don’t mind my saying so, it was not the idea of the serial reprints that the readers disliked, although at first glance it would seem so, but it was the stories you chose. They really were not fit for a modern reader’s consumption.”

Henry Kuttner writes from Beverly Hills, California: "I enjoyed most of the tales in the September issue, and the ones I did not shall go unnamed. Bruce Bryan makes a highly auspicious debut, and his familiarity with his subject lent a pleasing air of authenticity to The Ho-Ho-Kam Horror. As for School for the Unspeakable, I’ve developed into an ardent Wellman fan since reading such little masterpieces as this and The Kelpie.”

Most Popular Story

Readers, what is your favorite story in this issue? If you have any likes and dislikes, we shall be glad to hear about them. Write a letter to the Eyrie, Weird Tales, 840 N. Michigan Avenue, Chicago, or send us a postcard, telling us what you think of this magazine. In the October issue, three stories are exactly tied for first place as this issue goes to press. They are Tiger Cat by David H. Keller, Pledged to the Dead by Seabury Quinn, and The Shunned House by the late H. P. Lovecraft.

W. T.— 8


KLAUS kicked aside the curtain at the doorway and looked into the darkness of the little house. A woman crouched cross-legged on the earthen floor, her hair unbound,. her gown ripped open to expose her breasts. On her knees, very quiet, but not sleeping, lay a baby boy, and on the little breast there flowered a crimson wound. Klaus recognized it — a gladiator knew the trademark of his calling! — a sword-cut. Half a hand’s-span long, ragged at the edges, sunk so deep into the baby flesh that the glinting white of breastbone showed between the raw wound’s gaping, bloody lips.

"Who hath done this thing?” The Northman’s eyes were hard as fjord-ice, and a grimness set upon his bearded lips like that they wore when he faced a Cappadocian netman in the circus. "Who hath done this to thee, woman?”

The young Jewess looked up from her keening. Her eyes were red and swollen with much weeping, and the tears had cut small rivulets into the dust with which her face was smeared, but even in her agony she showed some traces of her wonted beauty.

"The soldiers,” she replied between breath-breaking sobs. "They came and smote and slew; there is not a man-child left alive in all the village. Oh, my son, my little son, why did they do this thing to thee, thou who never did them any harm? Oh, woe is me; my firstborn, only son is slain ”

"Thou liest, woman!” Klaus’s words rang sharp as steel. "Soldiers do not do things like this. They war with men, they make no war on babes.”

The mother rocked her body to and fro and beat her breast with small clenched fists. "The soldiers did it,” she repeated doggedly. "They came and went from house to house, and slew our sons ”

"Romans?” Klaus asked incredulously. Cruel the Romans were at times, but never to his knowledge had they done a thing like this. Romans were not baby-killers.

"Nay, the soldiers of the King. Romans only in the armor that they wore. They came marching into town, and — - — ”

"The soldiers of the King? Herod?”...

You cannot afford to miss this mystic story of the Yuletide and a barbarian from the North in the Roman army; a reverent tale of the Crucifixion, and Pontius Pilate, and a hetaera from the house of Mary the Magdalene. This fascinating and unusual novelette will be published complete in the next issue of Weird Tales:

ROADS

By Seabury Quinn

Also


By Gans T. Field

A novel of a hideous, stark horror that struck during a spirit seance — a tale of terror and sudden death, and the frightful thing that laired in the Devil's Croft.

THE WITCH’S MARK

By Dorothy Quick

Shamus O'Brien risked his very soul for the red, red lips of Cecily Maltby — a strange and curious story about a beautiful, evil woman with red-gold hair.


By Vennette Herron

It happened in the island of Java, that strange, weird, incredible thing that the natives fully believe, but the white man refuses to credit — the story of a tiger and a woman.


By Edmond Hamilton

A strange weird-scientific story with a tragic denouement — about a great composer who could recreate all visible things in sound.

January Issue Weird Tales.. Out December 1

Special Bargain Offer

YOURS

While They Last At Reduced Price Only Fifty Cents

Beautifully bound in rich blue cloth with attractive orangecolored cover jacket.

T he moon terror, by a. g.

Birch, is a stupendous weird-scientific novel of Oriental intrigue to gain control of the world.

DIMENSION, by Farnsworth Wright, is an uproarious skit on the four-dimensional theories of the mathematicians, and interplanetary stories in general.


In addition to the full-length novel, this book also contains three shorter stories by well-known authors of thrilling weirdscientific fiction:

OOZE, by Anthony M. Rud, tells of a biologist who removed the growth limitations from an amoeba, and the amazing catastrophe that ensued.

PENELOPE, by Vincent Starrett, is a fascinating tale of the star Penelope, and the fantastic thing that happened when the star was in perihelion.



Make sure of getting your copy now before the close-out supply is exhausted. Send your order today for this book at the special bargain price of only 50c.

Note: This book for sale from the publishers only. It cannot be purchased in any book store.

IWEIRD TALES, Book Dept.

I 8.J N. Michigan Ave., Chicago, III., U. 8. A.

! Enclosed find 50c for cloth-bound copy of THE | MOON TERROR as per your special offer.

Name.

Address.

| City.

[THE END]
