============================================================
Weird Tales
Volume , Number 
Date: May 1927
============================================================
============================================================
TABLE OF CONTENTS

  1. "The Song of the Bats_" by Robert E. Howard
  2. "The Black Castle_Marc R. Schorer & August W" by Derleth
============================================================
============================================================
THE SONG OF THE BATS_
by Robert E. Howard
============================================================
The meeting with the girl, and the thrilling encounter with giants dwindling out of unfathomable largeness, will be described in the thrilling chapters which bring this story to a conclusion in next month's issue.

The Song of the Bats

By ROBERT E. HOWARD

The dusk was on the mountain And the stars were dim and frail When the bats came flying, flying From the river and the vale To wheel against the twilight And sing their witchly tale.

' “We were kings of eld!” they chanted,

“Rulers of a world enchanted;

‘ 4 Every nation of creation “Owned our lordship over men.

4 4 Diadems of power crowned us,

“Then rose Solomon to confound us,

“Flung his web of magic round us,

“In the forms of beasts he bound us,

“So our rule was broken then.”

Whirling, wheeling into westward,

Fled they in their phantom flight;

Was it but a wing-beat music Murmured through the star-gemmed night?

Or the singing of a ghost clan Whispering of forgotten night?

by

Don

Robert

Catlin

“Get back, or I’ll smash this bottle on the floor!” he cried.

“T PERFORMED a decompresI sion operation. First trepanJL ning the skull, making a cir¬ cular hole and piercing it, I with¬ drew the precious contents of the pineal gland and also the cerebro¬ spinal fluid. I had no opportunity for quite some time to make use of the stimulative serum thus obtained, but it was preserved carefully; and, when I was later asked to operate on the brain of a man known for his dull-wittedness, I inoculated the patient with the serum. The opera¬ tion was a splendid success, the re¬ sults more than I had hoped for. Today, that dull-witted _ fellow is amazing all who know him by dis¬ playing flashes of positive genius! But enough of that—after all, I had fallen short of that which I had set out to do. Delving farther . . . . ” The speaker, Dr. Frank Whitley, broke off his discourse and surveyed the candidly puzzled features of his

visitors. There were three of them, all men of the medical profession who had gained renown in surgery.

“Delving farther,” continued Dr. Whitley, “I have made certain dis¬ coveries which I shall shortly dis¬ close. But before going into that, I wish to say a word by way of pref¬ ace. As all of you know, I have more or less dropped active practise to devote my attention to experi¬ mental work.” Settling himself comfortably in his chair, Dr. Whit¬ ley shot a quick glance at the others. “Have you ever given thought to the fact that, were it possible to pre¬ serve the brains of our greatest in¬ ventors, savants and statesmen, al¬ most incalculable good might result in future years? That unborn gen¬ erations might, in hours of greatest need, have at their disposal the mar¬ velous intellects of history’s super¬ men?”

LISTENING DEATH


“It appears that the operation you have just described might solve that question, ’ ’ put in Dr. Reynolds.

Whitley shook his head. “Not so,” he said; “though at first I thought as you. No, the trans¬ planting, by inoculation, of the pin¬ eal gland contents and the cerebro¬ spinal fluid does nothing but im¬ part a portion of the original intel¬ lect. By the time several such trans¬ plantings had been accomplished, precious little of the original would remain because of contamination with lesser brains. I will concede that this disclosure caused me to fear that my fondest hopes were not to be realized.”

Dr. Hazard, a white-haired sur¬ geon of the old school, wagged his leonine head. “I take it, then, that you have been working upon some scheme to preserve through the ages the brain-power of our greatest men? You younger chaps are for¬ ever digging up something startling —but I shouldn’t be down-hearted if I were you. Your success in transferring the vital secretions of the brain should do much in treat¬ ing the feeble-minded.”

“That, obviously, will be the ulti¬ mate use of that particular opera¬ tion,” assented Whitley. “But I am far from being downcast.”

He arose and walked across the surgery to the door of an adjoining room. In a moment he was wheel¬ ing air operating table into the pres¬ ence of his colleagues. Upon the table lay a still, covered figure whieh was, presumably, a cadaver. Dr. Whitley threw back the covering and disclosed the cold, white body.

“Will you gentlemen be kind enough to examine this?” he asked, indicating the cadaver.

Doctors Hazard, Reynolds and Truman went to the table and need¬ ed but a moment to ascertain that life was extinct, that the man was dead.

Whitley nodded at their verdict. A trace of a smile appeared in the corners of his sensitive mouth, and his lean, pale face lit up.

“Please be seated once more, gen¬ tlemen; and, I beg of you, be pa¬ tient with me when I tell you that this body has lain just as it now is for more than four months!”

“Impossible!” ejaculated Hazard. Then: “ I beg pardon-’ ’

“That’s quite all right, Doctor,” smiled Whitley. “To resume, then, the coherent trend of what I have been telling you: at the time of my greatest gloom over the failure of my brain-secretion inoculation, a noted Egyptologist unearthed the tomb and body of a long-dead Pharaoh. The association of ideas— preservation of body and preserva¬ tion of brain—gave me further stimulation. Vei'y well, then, I thought, since preservation of brain alone was denied me, I should pre¬ serve the entire body! I determined to conquer the mystery of the ages —and I have done so! For years I experimented along those lines: per¬ fecting a preservative, an embalm¬ ing fluid if you will, which would keep flesh and blood in an absolutely perfect state. This I have accom¬ plished, and as witness I have my friend over there upon the table— one Blair Wilson, a pugilistic gentle¬ man of doubtful antecedents.”

“Do you mean, Doctor, that this body has been—er, embalmed with

“Exactly,” Whitley answered young Dr. Truman. “Some four months past, he stumbled into my office. He was badly beaten up— suffering from contusions—and he fainted while I was administering a hypodermic. I was alone with him, having long since, as you know, dis¬ pensed with office girls and assist¬ ants. Judging by the man’s appear¬ ance that he could drop from sight without incurring comment, I acted



upon impulse and injected my formula into his veins, having but lately completed my calculations.”

“Oood heavens!” exclaimed old Dr. Hazard.

“The man was an ideal subject upon which to experiment, Dr. Haz¬ ard! If I had erred in my calcula¬ tions, his death was of no conse¬ quence to anyone but himself; a good riddance, in fact, for I rather suspect he has criminal tendencies. Obversely, if I succeeded, in a few months at most I should return his worthless life to him; and, through his services, science would have learned much. Professional ethics, you say, Doctor? My dear col¬ league, how many of us have lost patients because we dallied to ex¬ periment with some interesting mat¬ ter! What is one life compared to the betterment of all life? But to continue: I injected my preparation into his veins. He sank into a stu¬ por; respiration ceased; all vital organs completely stopped function¬ ing. My preservative had been car¬ ried to every tissue of the flesh, through, the blood. Life was ex¬ tinct ; the man was dead. And yet— decomposition did not set in!”

Dr. Reynolds shrewdly summed up the mat^r: “If. as you say, Whitley, this occurred four months ago, then your formula must have been accurately compounded. You have put to shame the embalmers of centuries past! I suppose you’ve kept check of temperatures?”

Dr. Whitley smiled wanly. “Truly, I had not erred. But I pre¬ ferred to wait some time before making public my discovery. I wanted to be doubly sure before returning life into that dead body. Oh yes; I forgot to tell you that there is an antidote to the preserv¬ ing fluid. At last, my dear sirs, I know the time has come. Here, in this surgery, is the means to prolong for eternity, if need be, the master

brains and supreme intellects of the world!”

“I am almost convinced, my dear Whitley, that you have divulged a wonderful thing,” murmured old Dr. Hazard.

“With all modesty, I have, Doc¬ tor. Presently I shall restore life to that dead man upon the table, juSt as might be replaced upon earth, upon demand, any great man into whose veins had been injected my formula. And let me say here and now, gentlemen, that as soon as I have revived^ Blair Wilson I shall refute once and for all time any ac¬ cusations of fakery by submitting myself to an inoculation so that you may experiment upon my own body. Belief and positive knowledge are matters entirely at variance; and as I’ve the courage of my convictions I demand that I be accorded an op¬ portunity to demonstrate upon my own person the authenticity of my disclosures.”

“There’s hardly need of that,” smiled Dr. Reynolds. “We all know that the man upon the table is dead, and if you bring him to life there can hardly be any doubt but that you have performed a surgical miracle! ’ ’

But Dr. Whitley merely smiled. He wheeled the operating table to the center of the room. “The pre¬ servative fluid,” he went on as he prepared to administer the antidote, “will be utterly destroyed by this second injection, which will eat its way through his veins, running rampant.”

Dr. Truman, youngest of the four surgeons, displayed unusual inter¬ est and animation. “I’m not fol¬ lowing you, Whitley; I’m way ahead of you! When the antidote has eaten up and destroyed the preserva¬ tive, you use adrenal chloride-”

Dr. Whitley was sterilizing some instruments. “Correct,” he took time to answer, nodding his approvLISTENING DEATH


al at the younger man. “As we know, adrenal chloride is the most powerful and energetic heart stimu¬ lant known to science.” With swift, sure fingers he injected a solution of the antidote into the veins of the recumbent Blair Wilson. “Now, al¬ lowing exactly three minutes for the antidote to perform its function, we have the subject in the customary state following natural death. A solution of the supra-renal capsule

I nterest growing in their eyes, the three surgeons watched with fascination as Dr. Whitley forced the powerful drug into the muscles of the dead man’s heart.. Then, as instruments clattered dully on the receiving tray, they sprang to Whit¬ ley’s assistance. Deft hands mas¬ saged, kneading the cold flesh.

Dr. Hazard looked up with a queer light in his eyes. “I am wondering what this man will think when he finds, himself here—after a lapse of

four months-”

“Money will speak his language,” laughed Dr. Whitley. Turning to the patient, he uttered an exclama¬ tion of satisfaction. “You will note that the pulse . . . The eyes! The eyes are opening!” And then, smil¬ ing down into the upturned face, “Feeling all right, old man? Your arm is hurting you? Legs, too?

That will cease in a moment-”

Whitley whirled to face his col¬ leagues. “Are you satisfied?”

“The thing is absurd—impossible

—and yet—and yet-” Old Dr.

Hazard gasped as he saw the supine figure twitching and moving about spasmodically.

Dr. Whitley was helping the re¬ vived man to his feet. “There, I know that you are feeling rather shaky, Wilson. Just relax in this chair. Now—I must confess that I have taken the liberty to do some ex¬ perimental work on your person,

Wilson. And though I assure you that no ill effects will result, I feel that I not only owe you a debt of gratitude but a monetary reward as well. I have here a release, written in legal form, from any and all claims you might hereafter bring against me should you at any time feel that my unwarranted actions en¬ title you to redress under the law. If you will sign this release, I shall ten¬ der you one thousand dollars—-in cash.”

The ex-pugilist seemed in a daze. His eyes, glazed over like some wild thing’s, swept the circle of forms confronting him. A trembling hand passed over his face, and when he spoke his voice was harsh and rasp¬ ing. “You gimme them thousand bucks before you change your mind!”

Dr. Whitley threw a quick glance at his colleagues. “That’s fine, my man. Just sign here—and now Dr. Hazard and Dr. Reynolds will sign as witnesses—good!” He folded the paper and placed it in his pocket, then handed the dazed man ten onehundred dollar bills. “How are you feeling now?”

The man was rubbing his arms. “Kinda numb, like I had the ci*amps or something,” he rasped. “Kinda tingling all over, an’ I got a head¬ ache-”

“Try and relax, Wilson. And drink this.” He handed the ex-pu¬ gilist a stimulant.

Then, crossing the room, Dr. Whit¬ ley busied himself at his desk. A phial of some greenish-blue, mottled liquid he placed in the center of the broad top, and beside it a sheet of paper upon which were several close¬ ly typed lines. His body bent to shield his actions, he thrust a hypo¬ dermic needle into a vein in his fore¬ arm.

When he turned to face the others a curious smile of triumph tinged his lips. “ I knew that you three would

C46


not be willing to see me undergo the inoculation, gentlemen .... No; it is too late, now. I’ve injected the preservative. ’ ’ And to Blair Wilson, groggily reclining in the easy chair, he added, “I am taking the same treatment I gave you, so you will see that no harmful after-results will en¬ sue, otherwise I’d not subject myself to it.”

The three surgeons were uneasy, apprehension gripping them. “But, Doctor-”

“I have only a very few minutes, gentlemen! If you will take notesas the drug takes effect . ... 1 On my desk you will find explicit direc¬ tions as to the administering of the antidote, and the phial containing it. ” His eyes drooped for a moment. “A slow, creeping fire seems to be shrouding me-” Again that curi¬

ous smile of triumph tinged his lips. “The courage of my convictions, eh, gentlemen?” He shuddered. “Per¬ haps I’d best lie down, for a numb¬ ness has taken possession of me-”

Gentle hands aided him as he climbed to the operating table; and over the prostrate form Dr. Hazard’s old eyes met the horrified ones of Dr. Reynolds.

Whitley gave a little sigh; his body was convulsed; and then he lay quite still.

“Is he-?” young Truman

asked in a strained voice.

Dr. Hazard bent above the body. As he straightened, after making an examination, he nodded. “Dead,” he whispered. “It was foolhardy of Whitley to undertake this — but

please note that-” His voice

dropped even lower: “I’d forgotten the ex-pugilist, Reynolds. Best get him out of the way, if he has suffi¬ ciently recovered, eh?”

Dr. Reynolds turned. “My God!” his voice rang in the elder surgeon’s ears. “Put that phial back on the desk—carefully! ’ ’

The others whirled, and to their horror saw that Blair Wilson, lurch¬ ing heavily to his feet, had advanced to the desk and taken up the con¬ tainer of the antidote.

“Don’t drop that, man! Place it back—no, hand it to me!”

Blair Wilson’s features ware twist¬ ed into a knowing leer. “Not so fast! Get back, or I’ll smash this on the floor! Try any funny stuff and this hellish drug gets smeared from wall to wall!”

“But you don’t understand-”

“The hell I don’t! You doctor guys think you know it all; you fig¬ ured I was just a poor dumb mutt, and maybe I am. But every dog has his day, and believe me this is mine!” He chuckled insanely, leer¬ ing owlishly at the bewildered coun¬ tenances of the three surgeons. “The doc, over there,” indicating the still body of Dr. Whitley, “is having a hell of a time right now, and maybe I don’t know it! Aw, you can’t kid me, bozo,” as Hazard would have spoken; “ I know all about the doc’s shot in the arm. You see, old chinwhiskers, there’s one mistake the doc made in making his drug; it kills you, all right—deader than hell— all but your brain! You can’t feel .... the doc stuck me with knives, and I guess I oughta know. You can’t talk, cause your body’s dead. But your brain ain’t dead, not by a long shot. You can think .... and think¬ ing and listening is all I been doing for about a million years! Maybe you' doctors can explain that part of it—I don’t know and I don’t eare— but you can sure hear, all right. Get back or I ’ll smash this bottle! There, we can talk now. Yeah, I gotta loti of talking to do. And while I’m talking I know the doc over there is suffering the torments of hell—for he don’t know what I’m gonna do with Ms precious drug!” He laughed fiendishly, ghoulishly. “Maybe you guys think I’m crazy, and I guess I

LISTENING DEATH


am. I’m just crazy enough to send the doc down into the hell he had me in! Let me toll you, there ain’t no torture in the world to-compare with knowing that your body’s dead —dead—dead .... and laying there, thinking and listening! It didn’t bother me so bad at first; I could hear the doc talking to himself, and putting two and two together I fig¬ ures out what he’s aiming to do. I thought he’d bring me out of it right away . . . and then I heard him say he’d wait a few months . .. and then ... I’d listen for his voice, listen for his footsteps. Listen; listen; al¬ ways listening! ‘Today’s the day,’ I’d tell myself; and then I’d hear the doc leaving me all alone again— alone with the demons of hell, of tor¬ ment. I’d try to yell, try to make him hear me, try to move .... God! Then I'd realize that I was dead. That my heart wasn’t beating. The horror of it! Just to lie there, a dead man. thinking and listening!

“Was it daytime or night? I didn’t know. Only when the doe came I knew it was day—but it would be months and years before I heard him again. I could think of a million things happening to him: he’d been in an accident, got killed .... and there I was with a thou¬ sand million centuries ahead of me, centuries of thinking and listening, a dead man! You think I’m' bug¬ house? I can tell you every word you guys said after you come in the office! It’s a wonder I ain’t plain nutty, after what I been through. ... I promised myself that if I ever got back to life again I was gonna kill the doe; that’s the only pleasant thing I had to think about. I fig¬ ured out more ways of torturing and killing him than man ever thought of before. To hurt him, to tear him apart with my hands, to make his agony last as lc*ig as I could before I checked him out! God! how I was gonna laugh as he died!

“And now my time’s come, only different than I figured. I heard the doc offer to take that shot himself; and I knew he meant to do it, to prove he wasn’t faking. So I lays low, takes his money, and keeps my mouth shut until he passes out. ’ ’ The man’s laughter rose shrilly into a crescendo of hate and horror. “Now I’ve got the whip-hand. I’ve got his drug . . . and there ain’t no more of it, and there ain’t no written di¬ rections how to make it! I’m gonna take this stuff with me, and if any of you guys tries to stop me, it goes smash on the floor! Maybe—maybe —I ’ll bring it back—some day! ’ ’

Terrified at the culmination of Dr. Whitley’s weird experiment, yet dar¬ ing not to move, daring not to at¬ tempt retrieval of the precious anti¬ dote, the three surgeons watched the ex-pugilist walk to the door and open it.

“From now on, the doe can do a little thinking and listening for him¬ self. There ain’t nothing gonna in¬ terrupt him!” And the crazed man chuckled at his own jibe. “He can do just what I did: he can listen— listen—listen for me to come back with his drug. Maybe I’ll come— maybe I won’t. That is what the doc is gonna he worried about!”

The door slammed behind him.

‘ ‘ T^To! Don’t try to stop him! ” old ^ Dr. Hazard cried as the younger and more impulsive Truman would have gone in pursuit. “There isn’t a chance of getting the phial from him without crashing it. The man is demented—he’d not have the slightest compunction in breaking the fragile container!”

“But, Doctor! Many things may happen; he may go completely in¬ sane, or get killed in a drunken brawl-’ ’

“That, my son, rests upon the knees of the gods,” said Hazard slowly.


“I can’t—I can’t chance it!” Tru¬ man burst forth. His face working with emotion, the younger man dashed into the hallway.

Dr. Hazard and Dr. Reynolds, drawn together by a mutual instinct, waited breathlessly. They heard a furious commotion; sounds of con¬ flict, scuffling, a hoarse, enraged cry from the rasping throat of Blair "Wil¬ son. And then—a shivering, a tin¬ kling of fragile glass upon the tiled floor!

Old Dr. Hazard clutched at Dr. Reynolds’ arm as the bedraggled fig¬ ure of young Truman re-entered the surgery. In Truman’s eyes they saw a dreadful horror, a nameless dread.

“Broken!” said Truman in an¬ swer to the unspoken question. “My God! ’ ’ And then, trembling, he add¬ ed furiously: “There was a chance —and I had to take it! Now that

the antidote is lost to us, there is but one thing we can do: we must, we must put poor Whitley out of his misery. My God! we can’t permit him to go on through time suffering mental torment-”

“You forget,” said Dr. Hazard, abjectly, “that nothing we can do will place Dr. Whitley beyond that which faces him . . . for we could but deprive him of life . . . and he is already dead!”

Truman gazed in open-eyed horror at the placid face of Dr. Whitley, as if seeking to discover some sign of understanding on that calm visage. But if Dr. Whitley heard, or knew, or understood, he gave no sign; not even the flicker of an eyelid betrayed the thoughts that must have seethed in his troubled brain. He was dead, truly, as far as any test could dis¬ cover; yet he seemed to be intently listening—listening. . . .

Painted Dragons

By CRISTEL HASTINGS

Who knows what mirth lays bare your gilded fangs— What secrets hide beneath the robe that hangs,

A background for your painted, grinning head?

No wonder all the little dreams have fled!

Who knows what thoughts light fires in your eyes,

While chow dogs howl their grievance to the skies—

And what becomes of tapers in the night When only you and Buddha watch their light?

Who knows why streets are narrow, twisted things—

Is it because you drag your finny wings In furtive places, prying here and there?—

And is that why you grin—and stare—and stare?

I N AMAZEMENT that verged on downright consternation, old Mr. Currie, the attorney, sank back in his chair and gaped at the agitated man opposite him.

“Yon—you mean to say,” he de¬ manded incredulously, “that your wife exerts a power as strong as that over you?”

“As strong as thatf It’s stronger? Oh, a thousand times stronger than you can possibly imagine?”

Trembling with the despair that filled him, Roger Byrd almost sobbed the words. His fists were fiercely clenched on the lawyer’s desk, one of them continuously pounding as if to release compressed energy. Deep in his haggard eyes lurked the flames of unutterable anguish. He looked, in truth, as though he were battling to crush down explosive hysteria.

Uneasily Mr. Currie swallowed and wet his lips. He grumbled something

indistinguishable; then, scowling, he muttered, “I—I never heard of any¬ thing so—uncanny-”

At that, Byrd leaned forward, while those brilliant eyes of his burned into the attorney’s.

“You never heard of hypnotism?” he challenged, and his tones raced up the scale to a shrill, defiant pitch..

“Well, yes, of course; but not to such an astonishing extent. I

thought- Why, really, Byrd, this

is quite beyond me!”

Profoundly bewildered, Mr. Currie brushed an unsteady hand up over his moist forehead and allowed it to sweep back across his pompadour of silken, unflecked whiteness. Staring at the man who had come to him with so extraordinary a problem, he en¬ countered only an expression of im¬ potent wretchedness.

He scratched his chin, nervously tapped the edge of the desk.




“Suppose/’ he suggested, “you tell me how you became the victim— ah—that is, how you were subjected to such an influence. I confess I’m totally confounded. If you want ad¬ vice, you will have to explain more clearly-”

Roger Byrd rose—Pot, as another man might rise for a recital, but with a sudden spring that caused his chair to fly back, tottering. His right fist delivered a final blow upon the desk. Then, glowering at the floor, he began striding about the lawyer’s study.

He was still a young man, just ven¬ turing into his thirties; yet the lines which had of late been carved in his dark skin added at least a decade to his appearance. A quivering tense¬ ness had beset his tall figure, so that under his gray suit every muscle seemed vibrant as he paced the room. He was troubled, moreover, by the disheveled condition of his black hair; time after time he was constrained to throw it back with an impatient jerk of his head—a gesture that merely emphasized the strain upon him.

“It started two years ago—in Cal¬ cutta-” he began.

“H’m, where you met your wife,” murmured Mr. Currie, nodding.

“Yes. You know I was making a trip through India-”

“You had gone there, T remem¬ ber,” interrupted the lawyer, some¬ what coldly, “to escape the scan¬ dal of that affair with the Royler woman.”

Byrd whirled around to glare across the desk. A flood of scarlet rushed into the cheeks that had been pallid. He raised one hand impetu¬ ously but let it fall again after an instant of silence.

“Mr. Currie,” he said, a strange harshness creeping into his tones, “I’ll ask you to forget my past troubles—at this moment. I have enough to worry me without being reminded of—of other things!”

“I beg your pardon,” said the at¬

torney, but his shrug belied the ear¬ nestness of his apologetic inflection.

Byrd frowned. He looked down at the carpet, as though to recall the narrative he had momentarily aban¬ doned. And then, resuming his nervous pacing, he continued with¬ out glancing at the lawyer.

“In Calcutta I met a friend—an American—who told me about the wonderful powers of Kashla. Mystic powers, he called them. She had a booth in the market place, where she entertained tourists by demonstrating her hypnotic ability—for a price, of course.

“I went to her. I went with that air of superior cynicism all travelers affect, ready to scoff at her trickery. I thought I should find an old hag, dirty and fawning.

“Well, my first surprize came when I saw Kashla. She was young and in a way beautiful. We chatted pleasantly; we laughed. You know how—how two young people can be. Naturally, I still disbelieved in her mystic power. And so she—she of¬ fered to prove to me what she could do.”

Byrd paused. His fingers moved across his lips, shaking. For an instant he shut his eyes—although whether it was to conjure up or blot out some awful memory, the law¬ yer could not guess.

But the silence passed, and Roger Byrd proceeded, rather unsteadily and in staccato syllables:

“She made me sustain the gaze of her eyes. Black eyes, Mr. Currie! Terrible eyes! They blazed—they stung—they made me sway dizzily. I don’t know what happened. All I know is that I regained consciousness two hours later —and 1 was lying on my bed in my hotel!”

The two men regarded each other across the desk, one gaping blankly, the other peering with savage intensi¬ ty. Mr. Currie once more smoothed his white hair. Again he wet his lips.

IN KASHLA’S GARDEN


When he spoke, it was in a queerly hushed way.

“You mean you were in a trance all that time?”

“Yes! I walked home in a trance! She controlled me from her booth— controlled me implicitly! Of course, I rushed back to her. I was filled with wonder and astonishment. But Kashla only laughed at my excite¬ ment. And do you know what she said?”

Mechanically Mr. Currie shook his head, his eyes wide, marveling.

“I remember her words distinct¬ ly—I shall always remember them!” whispered Roger Byrd. He had come to lean over the desk. Now his flushed features hovered directly over Mr. Currie’s round face. He dropped word after word as though each were a stunning blow. “She said this: ‘I have subjugated your mind and your will; henceforth, if I desire it, you are mine!’ ”

The attorney uttered an exclama¬ tion that dwindled into a grunt. “But that was nonsense! ” he protested.

“Oh, was it?” cried Byrd, sneer¬ ing. “Well, listen. I thought so, too. I ridiculed her. She told me that a mind once conquered remained hers —and offered to prove this new con¬ tention. She assured me that at 7 o’clock the following evening, regard¬ less of what other plans I had made, I should be in her booth.

“It chanced that I had an engage¬ ment to dine with friends at that hour. I was not at all afraid of Kash¬ la. In fact, I almost forgot her the next evening, and at 6:30 I arrived at the home of my dinner host. I dis¬ tinctly recall hearing a servant an¬ nounce the meal. I even recall start¬ ing toward the dining room while I chatted with an eminent Hindoo. Then-”

A puzzled expression leapt into Byrd’s eyes.

“Then something happened. My mind suddenly went blank. What I

did, or how, I can not say. But when my senses returned to me, it was pre¬ cisely 7. And—there I stood, in Kashla’s booth, blinking down at her while she laughed! ’ ’

Stirred, visibly affected, Mr. Currie reached for a cigar. He lit a match, thoughtfully held it until its flame scorched his fingertips, and cast it away without having puffed once. Keenly squinting up at Kashla’s vic¬ tim, he asked, “And she has never lost this power over you?”

“Never!” declared Byrd. “When she learned I was rich, that I had a fortune in America, she decided to marry me. She decided—you under¬ stand? I tried to run away from her. Indeed, I went as far as Bombay— when one day, while purchasing a steamship ticket, I suddenly lost con¬ sciousness. The next thing of whieh I was aware was being back in Cal¬ cutta, beside the laughing Kashla!”

Evidently the recital was plucking as severely upon Mr. Currie’s nerves as upon his credulity. He rose, a thickset, stocky man with a loose double chin. Again he indulged in his habitual gesture of brushing back his white pompadour. Looking at Byrd sternly, he demanded, “Are you trying to tell me that you trav¬ eled from Bombay to Calcutta in a trance?”

Roger Byrd emitted a short laugh, a bitter, wrathful laugh.

“You don’t believe it?” he snarled sardonically. “All right, let me go on. I did go to her in a trance. In that condition, I move as rationally, as safely, as though I were myself. The only difference is that I am con¬ trolled by her will, her mind, instead of by my own.”

“But despite that, you married her-”

“What else could I do? She willed me to marry her!”

“Eh? She willed-?”

“Certainly!” snapped Byrd, re¬ launching his quick paces and comWEIRD TALES


miming now with the floor rather than with the staring lawyer. “She compelled me to marry her—made me want to do it! Do you think that un¬ der normal circumstances I, Roger Byrd, who could marry any one of a dozen rich American girls, would havfe selected an Indian mystic from a Calcutta market place? Pah! J'hink, Mr. Currie, think!”

'T'hroughout Byrd’s agitated talk the attorney had been striving to compose himself, that he might con¬ sider this extraordinary situation sensibly, unemotionally. Now, eyeing his client, he saw matters more clear¬ ly. Roger Byrd had always been an impulsive creature of a sensitive and high-strung nature. That a hypnotist could dominate him was not so strange, after all, for his own will had been lamentably weak; since child¬ hood it had been merely a weathervane pointing the direction of other people’s desires.

Yet Byrd was ostensibly suffering, and the old attorney could not help scowling in concern.

“I understand,” he said slowly, “that you wish me to find a way of obtaining a divorce for you or—or an annulment, if possible-”

“Yes! I’m—I’m sick of being mas¬ tered! She made me install her here in my home—and half my servants quit. So she imported servants from India. She redecorated many of the rooms so that I live in an Oriental museum rather than in a house. I’m tired of it, I tell you! Whatever she wishes, I am forced to do —anything at all. If I don’t do it voluntarily, I do it under the spell of her will. I tell you, Mr. Currie, if I can’t get rid of that woman, I may as well kill my¬ self!”

“Oh, now—now,” soothingly mum¬ bled the lawyer, though he was frown¬ ing down at his desk in a manner far from reassuring. “I wouldn’t talk like that, Byrd-”

“Because you haven’t lived as I have for the past two years—an abso¬ lute mental slave! Why, I—I can’t even run away! She makes me come back! Distance is no barrier-”

Of a sudden Roger Byrd sank into a chair. He bent far forward, sent his fingers writhing through his di¬ sheveled black hair. And in utter wretchedness he moaned, “I’d rather be dead than go on like this—without a will of my own!”

For a long time absolute stillness gripped the room. Mr. Currie moved to a window where, his hands clasped behind his back, he stood gazing out over a Westchester panorama of roll¬ ing fields sprinkled with colorful rooftops—the whole scene drenched in golden morning sunshine. Beneath his window his blue automobile wait¬ ed to hasten him to his New York of¬ fice.

Looking to the left, he could dis¬ cern the white residence of Roger Byrd—an imposing house visible through a screen of poplars alined in military precision. It was less than a quarter of a mile away, a fact which had facilitated this early call.

But Mr. Currie was not pondering upon the things he saw. Instead, his thoughts were focused on the charac¬ ter of his despairing client.

The friendship he manifested to¬ ward Byrd was based upon an ancient family intimacy rather than on any personal esteem or respect. For Roger Byrd was scarcely the type to inspire admiration. In the past ten years he had been involved in half a dozen deplorable escapades with women—affairs that had cost him amazing sums; the last of them had sent him scurrying off to India, that he might escape the presence of an irate lady named Edwina Royler. That his flight had resulted in this tragic situation was perhaps unfortu¬ nate, yet it was possessed of a certain poetic justice which Mr. Currie was compelled to appreciate.

IN KASHLA’S GARDEN


Suddenly his revery was shattered by Byrd’s exclamation, “Well, what’s to be done?”

The lawyer turned, fingering his heavy watch chain. Quietly he an¬ swered, “I—I don’t know. This case is new in my experience, I must con¬ fess. I should like time to think—to consider-”

“Then, in heaven’s name,” cried Byrd, jumping up, “think fast! I’ve been suffering two years, and they’ve seemed to me two centuries! ”


TX7'hen, at a few minutes before W 10, Roger Byrd returned to his home, he found his wife seated in her garden and smiling pleasantly at his approach.

It was a magnificent spot, this gar¬ den Kashla had caused to be planted in accordance with her Oriental taste. Fronting the white, pillared house of the Byrds, it was thronged with all manner of exquisite flowers, so that the senses not only reeled with the sweetness of its perfume but marveled at the splendor of a thousand bril¬ liant hues.

An artificial brook crawled here and there, crossed at points by small, arched bridges that were canopied with vines. It had, indeed, become a show-place; and automobilists fre¬ quently stopped to stare at the glo¬ ries Kashla had contrived to bring into her garden. Butterflies flut¬ tered about incessantly, intoxicating themselves on the exotic wines the' flowers yielded. In the surrounding trees birds of vivid plumage sang and chirped and pecked, as though they had agreed to select this point of beauty for their own domain.

Kashla sat in a wicker chair under a bower of rambling red roses, a neg¬ lected book lying open in the grass be¬ side her. She was attired completely in flimsy white, and even Byrd could not deny her entrancing loveliness.

For Kashla was beautiful—beauti¬ ful in the maddening way only women of the East can achieve. Her hair, which was as lustrously black as the plumes of the crows that some¬ times circled over her garden, was drawn down tightly over her ears and coiled in an immense bun on the back of her neck—so that she resembled, in her white dress, some ancient Grecian goddess.

She never availed herself of cos¬ metics; and her smooth skin, though tinted to an olive complexion, was always pale. But it was a queer pallor—an unhealthy, unnatural pal¬ lor. Often it made Byrd think of deathIn truth, Kashla was not a healthy woman. Frail, supple, small in stat¬ ure; her mental strength had been developed at a lamentable sacrifice of her physical hardihood. So it was that she never indulged in anything which required exertion, her most taxing exercise being occasional walks about the garden. And she moved there with the ease and the languor of a phantom.

Like other frail women, she was addicted to tonics and medicines, many of which were compounded on Oriental prescriptions. But these in no manner affected her mental strength, and she governed her hus¬ band with all the energy of her fierce, fantastic power.

When he entered the garden, she summoned him with a slow wave of her white hand. Byrd went to her, frowning.

“You have been out on your morn¬ ing walk?” she inquired amiably. Her voice, though throaty, contained all the flexible music of a clarinet. He nodded.

“And today?” she pressed on. “You have not forgotten, Roger, what you must do today?” In the past two years she had learned to speak English with astounding pro¬ ficiency, though she still retained a



melodious accent that evoked delight from everyone save Byrd himself.

He glared down at his toe.

“Today,” he said stiffly, “you want me to buy you the new town car. ’ ’

“Ah, you remember! And you will leave soon?”

“Immediately.”

He had not wished to purchase the new car that Kashla desired. Yet he comprehended the folly of protesting. If he did not comply with her re¬ quests willingly, he knew he would obey in a different way; and volun¬ tary acquiescence was invariably pre¬ ferable to being subjected to her weird influence.

“Then — go now, Roger,” said Kashla, smiling at him and gesturing toward the house. Her flaming black eyes laughed up at him, as though mocking his helplessness. He bit his lip—bit until he felt a sharp pain. Then he muttered something and went into his house, preparatory to the. unavoidable trip to the city.

So eager had he been to interview Mr. Currie at his home, that he had not paused to shave. And now Roger Byrd, passing through a corridor that reeked of Oriental ineense and mount¬ ing a staircase whose wall was tapes¬ tried with the figures of snakes and dragons, entered the bathroom.

As thoughtfully, resentfully, he loosened his collar and drew off his shirt, he stared through the open win¬ dow. The rattle of a lawn-mower rose through the warm stillness of the summer morning. Byrd looked down; there was Ozul, the Indian gardener Kashla had brought to tend her flow¬ ers. A bent, swarthy little man who seemed engrossed in no other worldly interest save his botanical duties. He was pushing the lawn-mower to and

fro, to and fro- Ozul the silent.

the queer! The man who appeared sometimes to see and know everything and who seldom spoke of anything but flowers-

“What a crowd she’s drawn me into!” actually rasped Byrd as he turned for his shaving brush.

Before him, just above the wash¬ bowl, was a marble shelf loaded with Kashla’s medicines and tonics. He sneered at it; he hated those bottles as he hated everything symbolic of his wife.

One of the bottles was almost empty; it contained a brown fluid in which Kashla had been accustomed to place absolute faith. What it was, Byrd did not know. Some queer con¬ coction brought out of India—one she took twice a day, at 9 in the morning and at 4 in the afternoon.

Peculiar stuff, he told himself while shaving. There was but a mouthful left in that bottle—only a single dose. Had she the prescription for another supply? But of course! Kashla had all her prescriptions. Her life de¬ pended on them, she had once confid¬ ed to him.

What could be so potent in this tonic? He had never seen any of it in this country. It looked like iodine. Yes, iodine—iodine—iodiOf a sudden Roger Byrd stopped shaving. He stood rigid, his wide eyes gaping at his lathered reflection in the mirror.

It looked like iodine!

It has been said that men conceive a thousand vagrant fancies while shaving. How this particular idea ever struck Roger Byrd, he could not explain. It simply came to him, as if it were an inspiration.

A horrible thought it was. It stif¬ fened every muscle in his tall body. Iodine-!

He began to think. Frantically, desperately, wildly, he considered the idea from every possible angle.

What if Mr. Currie could somehow have the marriage annulled? What if he could secure a divorce on some grounds? Would that terminate Kashla’s power? No! She had prom¬ ised to be the mistress of Byrd’s mind

IN KASHLA’S GARDEN


forever. And forever meant until death.

Until death! Death was the only thing that could sever the bond that linked his subjugated mind to her hypnotic power. DeathRivulets of. perspiration oozed out of his forehead to stream down into the lather. Death—the tonic looked like iodine—there was iodine in the medicine chest—death—iodine--

Round and round, in a furious cycle, the thoughts whirled in his brain. People would say she had taken iodine by mistake; others had died by drinking from the wrong bot¬ tle. It was nothing novel. And so easy now! He could pour out that tonic and substitute an equal amount of iodine. Kashla would gulp it down in one swallow, as usual. And thenThe end of mental tyranny! The end of slavery, of torture! Freedom! Oh, great God, what an idea!

'T'he lather was still on his face, but - Roger Byrd had forgotten it. He was breathing rapidly, heavily, as he worked over those bottles. Whatever horror he may have ex¬ perienced was overwhelmed by the mad exultation he derived from a vis¬ ion of freedom. This was the only way, the only certainty, by which his mental shackles could be destroyed. And he leapt at it eagerly, unthink¬ ingly.

When the tonic had been spilled in¬ to the wash-bowl, he allowed water from the faucet to gush out force¬ fully, that it might wash away all stains. Then he carefully—oh, so carefully—poured iodine into the medicine bottleIt was done!

Roger Byrd stood quaking, yet odd¬ ly ecstatic. His eyes blazed. Per¬ spiration coursed freely down his en¬ tire body. While he was in New York, purchasing a new town car, the thing would happenConsequences? He did not care about them or worry as to what might be his eventual explanation. Any¬ thing was better than a continuance of this fearful life.

The coroner would declare she had taken poison by mistake. What else could he say?

Oh, but yes, there was a danger! It occurred to Roger Byrd quite abrupt¬ ly and left him frowning in bewilder¬ ment. Would not any investigator know that iodine had been poured in¬ to that tonic bottle? W T ould not any detective demand to know who had poured it, and why?

For several minutes Byrd contem¬ plated this hitherto neglected peril. In his agitation, he had viewed only the ultimate escape from Kashla’s power; now other things occurred to him.

But his mind was functioning with furious rapidity; in a moment he had developed a scheme which brought a shrewd smile to his lathered face.

He broke off the neck of the iodine bottle against the edge of the marble shelf.

Spilling the rest of its contents in¬ to the wash-bowl, he threw the rem¬ nants of the bottle into a metallic basket in a comer.

And now he had assured himself of a plausible alibi—one which would prevent anyone’s accusing him of wil¬ ful or premeditated murder. For he could say to an inquirer: “Yes, I poured the iodine into that medicine bottle. Why? Well, when I readied for my razor, I inadvertently upset it. The bottle fell and broke at the neck. But a little iodine remained in its bottom. I saw that empty medi¬ cine bottle and poured it into that. Empty? Of course, the medicine bot¬ tle was empty!”

And who could oppose him in that contention, with Kashla dead? Who, indeed, would doubt him?

Roger Byrd actually grinned with the prospect of freedom from his



wife’s power. Oh, he might be held for homicide; but with a clever, in¬ fluential attorney like Mr. Currie, with so plausible an explanation of his unintentional act, with his family name, with the aura of an accidental catastrophe hovering over the whole business-

“Freedom!” muttered Roger Byrd.

And then, suddenly glancing through the window, he saw Ozul the gardener.

Ozul was still pushing the clattering lawn-mower, steeped in his task with bovine complacence. Yet Ozul might have been looking up through that open window-

“Nonsense!” Byrd assured him¬ self. “He’s been busy. He doesn’t even know I’m here. There’s nothing for me to worry about. Why, by to¬ night I’ll—I’ll be free! Free from her!”

And he shaved joyfully, confident that his apprehensions concerning Ozul were unfounded and insignif¬ icant.


J ubilant in an unholy, demoniacal way, Roger Byrd motored into New York in his own yellow roadster. On the journey, he gloated. What splen¬ did dreams were approaching realiza¬ tion! The death of tyranny!

He decided to follow his precon¬ ceived plans in passing the day, lest any deviation from his normal habits be construed as worthy of suspicion. Accordingly, he lunched at one of his clubs and tarried in a merry conver¬ sation with one of the other members. Over cigars and jolly anecdotes he sat until half-past 2. And he laughed often and heartily, though his merri¬ ment occasionally sounded queerly shrill, strained.

Then he occupied himself in the selection of a town car—a task that consumed most of the afternoon. It was 6 o’clock when finally he started

homeward; and a flat tire delayed him another half-hour.

Finally, however, at almost 8 o’clock, Roger Byrd drove within sight of his imposing w T hite residence.

As he neared it, his heart thun¬ dered, his whole being shook. How would he be greeted? By news of Kashla’s death, of course. The serv¬ ants would chatter in confusion, in¬ forming him that they had tried to telephone his clubs, but all attempts at locating him had been futile. Oh, he could visualize the calamitous scene, and it filled him w r ith palpitant delight.

Twilight had settled on the coun¬ try—a grayish, purplish twilight, strangely hazy. In the western skies flamed a few streaks of orange and yellow; their glow permeated the vagueness of oncoming night.

Byrd drove on, already conscious of the heavy perfumes emanating from Kashla’s wondrous garden. He turned the car into the driveway, while every beat of his heart seemed a violent explosion. He was, he knew, on the very brink of—freedom! More than that, by this time he was f ree.

Toward the garage he directed the roadster. Perhaps twenty feet he rode into the grounds. And then, with an impulsive motion, he jammed on his brakes.

The car stopped with a jerk that sent him lurching forward. Very still he sat, gasping, aghast, dumfounded. He was staring toward that bower canopied with rambling red roses, where Kashla had been seated in the morning.

And as he stared, his forehead be¬ came dripping wet and every trace of color ebbed from his cheeks. A sense of abject hopelessness more insuffer¬ able than pain sw r ept through him.. It was the crash of dreams, the bursting of the bubbles he had blown.

For there, under the roses, smiling at him sweetly, sat the white-clad Kashla!

IN KASHLA’S GARDEN


In the hazy light he saw her hand languidly rise to beckon him; and he went to her—dazedly.

“Have you bought the town ear?” she asked when he stood before her. Mutely he nodded, his eyes round and stupefied.

“That is good,” murmured Kashla, her fingers straying to wind about the stem of a dangling rose. “I see, my dear, dear husband, that you are sur¬ prized—no, shocked—because you find me still alive, eh?”

The taunt in her low tones tortured him. The perfume of the flowers made his senses ache with their load of sweetness. He was perspiring copiously now, and his hand un¬ steadily brushed across his moist forehead.

“Wh-what do you mean?” he de¬ manded defiantly, his voice hoarse.

“Oh, why should we play inno¬ cent with each other, Roger?” Not once did her smile vanish. Over her fragile figure the purple twilight settled, like a mantle of unreality. She shrugged. “Ozul saw through the bathroom window.”

‘ ‘ Ozul saw—! ’ ’ gasped Byrd, terrified.

“Of course. He saw you toying with the bottles, so I was wise, my dear, and I did not take my tonic today. Ozul is very loyal to me, you know. ’ ’

In his devastating chagrin, Roger Byrd could have shrieked. Instead of freedom he had encountered fail¬ ure! But somehow he managed to restrain his wild impulses and stood motionless.

Kashla — the slender, ethereal Kashla—lavished her smile upon him.

“I can not altogether blame you, my good husband,” she said, every word mocking him in that subtle, melodious way. “I have been very severe with you. But—when one tries to murder, one must suffer some punishment.”

Trembling, Byrd attempted to ex¬ onerate himself by blurting, “It was an accident! I broke the bottle-”

“It wa§ no accident,” calmly answered Kashla. “And you will be punished. I shall tell you how, Rog¬ er. Mr. Currie, your lawyer, is waiting for you in the house.”

“Mr. Currie-?” he repeated

mechanically.

“Yes. Oh, he has already told me you wish to be rid of me.”

Mentally Byrd cursed; what an idiot the attorney was for babbling things!

With all her mellifluous placidity, the slim Kashla went on, “I do not want to send you to prison. What use is a husband in prison? But I want your friend, Mr. Currie, to know what you have tried to do to¬ day. After that, I think he will not be so anxious to help you. ’ ’

Byrd recoiled, stricken by fear. His eyes were round and ablaze.

“I can’t tell him!” he cried.

“Oh, yes, you can—and you shall. Do not be afraid. He will not send you to prison. He thinks too much of your family. But—I want him to know what you did!”

“I can’t tell him!” groaned Byrd.

“You shall.”

“I can’t! I—I-”

And then he encountered Kashla’s suddenly narrowed eyes, twin specks of fire that burned their way into his very brain. He felt a dizziness surge over him. He swayed. He knew his will was under her domin¬ ion! and now she was exerting her fantastic power—sending him to con¬ fess to the lawyerRoger Byrd went.

He could not help going. He was completely governed by Kashla’s will. His very thoughts were dictat¬ ed by her desire. Like a creature in a dream he walked, entranced and impotent. And Kashla remained un¬ der the roses in her favorite bower, looking after him.



Tn the Orientally adorned drawing ^ room Byrd found Mr. Currie and two other men. Who these were, he did not know; nor did he dare speak in their presence.

Yet words somehow gushed to his tongue—words he could not sup¬ press—words sent there by Kashla.

He turned to Mr. Currie. It oc¬ curred to him that the attorney sat strangely pale and grave. Byrd bowed. In low tones that poured from him in a monody, he said, “Mr. Currie, today I tried to murder my wife. I substituted poison—iodine —for her tonic.”

And as soon as he had jittered those words, Roger Byrd sensed a change well through him. The power that had been clutching his mind re¬ leased its hold. He remained sud¬ denly his own master, thinking clearly. But he quivered as he gaped at Mr. Currie; and he opened his mouth to a circle of astonishment.

For Mr. Currie, as well as the two other men, had sprung toward him. Now the lawyer was grasping his arm, shaking it violently. And in a

choking voice he cried, “You —you did that, Byrd?”

Momentarily Byrd was frightened by the tremulous vehemence. Then, while a wan, helpless smile twisted his lips, he mumbled: “Ozul, the gardener, would have told you, any¬ way. She’d make him.”

“But the gardener swore he knew nothing!” ejaculated Mr. Currie.

The confident assertion caused Byrd to frown. Had Kashla lied to him? He sucked in a sharp breath. "VVhat did Mr. Currie mean?

“My wife,” he replied stiffly, “told me he knew everything.”

Mr. Currie stepped backward and looked blankly at the other two men. Then he peered more intently at Byrd.

“Your wife said that?” he de¬ manded. “When did she tell you that?”

“Why, just a moment ago, in the garden.”

Mr. Currie gulped, wet his lips. Slowly his two hands were lifted to grasp and shake Roger Byrd's shoul¬ ders.

“Are you crazy?” the lawyer whis¬ pered. “Your wife drank poison and died at half-past 4 this afternoon!”

T HE note from my Uncle Carl did not imbue me with an ex¬ cess of emotion despite its conciliatory, not to say appealing tone:

“My Dear Nephews

“I need you at once and I hope you will forget any past differences and leave at the earliest possible moment. I enclose more than enough for expenses of trip. For God’s sake come!”

The last sentence had been scrib¬ bled in pencil at the bottom of the typewritten communication and sug¬ gested an access of some emotion ap¬ proaching fear. The address was new, for my uncle, Carl Brand, had always resided in Chicago, where his eminence as a surgeon was continual¬ ly referred to in the press. Now, ap¬ parently, he had removed to Wychington, Illinois, which I ascertained by reference to the local railway office was some forty miles from the metropolis.

I considered whether to return the money or accede to his request. I re¬ called somewhat bitterly his coldness when, on the death of my dear moth¬ er, his own sister, a few years before, he had done no more than send formal condolences, though he knew we were in very straitened circum¬ stances at the time. Again, a few months afterward, when I asked his assistance in obtaining a position in Chicago, he had advised me coldly enough to stay in Nevada. I had done so and by dint of hard work made myself a good berth with the Carson City Mercantile Trust Com¬ pany. I thought it all over and finally came to a decision. After all, he was my only living relative. If he was in need, I could not refuse. So I obtained a leave of absence, packed a grip and took the train for Chicago. Arriving there, I found that a branch line stopped at Wy659


chington, arriving around 9 o’clock in the evening.

The station, when the slow travel¬ ing train at last set me down there, was lighted by a single electric bulb and was already closed. Luckily it was a warm, clear night in the spring, so that walking would be no hardship, and certainly it would be necessary to walk, for there were no conveyances in sight. I had not wired Uncle Carl of my coming; I did not anticipate any difficulty in finding so distinguished an individ¬ ual in a town of three thousand population where, most likely, every¬ one knew his neighbor’s business.

The town was visible in the early moonlight, in a little valley below the traeks and some hundreds of yards distant. A few lights were visible, but quite evidently this was a “9 o’clock” village and only a ga¬ rage or drug store would probably still be open. It was in the latter, at¬ tended by a sleepy-eyed clerk, that I put my inquiry regarding the where¬ abouts of Dr. Brand. He looked at me in some surprize and answered my question, but asked one of his own at the same time.

“You’re a stranger, aren’t you? He’s living over at the old Raynes place.”

Further inquiry elicited the in¬ formation that the old Raynes place was the dilapidated and formerly untenanted mansion at the fringe of woods on the other side of the town. It appeared that my relative had rented it, and partially repaired the damage it had sustained through the years of emptiness, some three months before.

The clerk vouchsafed one more bit of information as I left the store: “Better sing out before you ring the bell—he’s kind of queer, you know.”

I didn’t know, but could well suspect it. However, I followed the advice and “sang out” after I had

reached the dark doorway, following a difficult passage through a tangle of weeds and shrubbery to the ver¬ anda.

It was an old house, almost hidden by the encroaching woods; it was, furthermore, in a sad state of dis¬ repair which was apparent even in the kindly moonlight. Evidently Uncle Carl’s efforts to restore the place had not extended beyond its interior.

I stood before the door; not a light was visible, not a sound came from within. I called loudly: “Uncle Carl —this is Tom Ranee—are you awake?”

Then I rang the bell.

My friend the clerk, however, had been quite sound in his advice, for even as the bell was jangling dis¬ cordantly somewhere in the bowels of the old house, the door opened and a queer face peered out. I say “queer” advisedly. That it was my uncle’s I had no doubt, but I had never seen him and was scarcely prepared for the vision. He was at¬ tired in a dressing gown of faded brown; his shock of white hair was leonine and unkempt; his face was gaunt, rugged and forbidding, while his frame, despite the indication that he was a man well past fifty, was still powerful.

“So you’ve come, have you?”

The greeting, in a deep,, sonorous voice, was hardly what I might have expected, but I decided to take things as they came and answered affirmatively.

“You are my uncle?” I asked, somewhat superfluously.

He growled out a reply, also in the affirmative. “Come in,” he added, and swung the door ajar, at the same time switching on a light that re¬ vealed a hallway with a worn carpet and the woodwork black with age and grime.

FROM THE PIT


M y uncle led me to the living room—a large apartment, furn¬ ished with a certain degree of com¬ fort. He sank into an easy chair and nodded me to another. A cen¬ ter table, littered with books and pa¬ pers, mingled with certain scientific instruments, occupied a considerable part of the space.

“You were already in bed?” I asked.

“No,” he answered; “I had switched off the light and was dozing here in the dark. But I’ll show you to your room presently. I suppose you are tired.”

“Not especially. I’m anxious to know why you sent for me; why you’re living here instead of in Chi¬ cago: are you all alone?”

“I am almost alone,” he admitted. “My secretary, Miss Darling, comes here every day to take dictation. I brought her from Chicago. I have no relatives besides yourself. I came here to finish a—a work on which I am engaged.”

“Oh, I see. And why-?”

“I sent for you,” he continued, as if I had not interrupted, “because I believe I am in danger; I need a man I could trust. I hope I can trust you?”

The observation was almost inter¬ rogative and I smiled.

“I hope you can; I didn’t bring any credentials,” I said, “but my record is clean where I come from.”

“Tut-tut,” he retorted; “quick¬ tempered, like your mother. Well, it’s all right. I haven’t been par¬ ticularly considerate, I know. Per¬ haps you will not regret coming, nevertheless—but we can go to bed now. In the morning I’ll tell you all —all that you need to know.”

His hesitancy, the hint of danger, of menace, rather stirred my some¬ what sluggish imagination. Perhaps I should really enjoy this adventure after all. He said one thing more before showing me to the small but

comfortable room where I was to sleep.

“I hope,” he said, “you brought a revolver with you. Keep it handy, if you did. I sleep across the hall— if you hear anything, call; if you see anything—shoot first and ask ques¬ tions afterward.”

“But what-?”

“I can’t tell you now—wait!”

He ambled off, and I heard the door close and a key turn in the lock. I was realty tired, in spite of my dis¬ claimer, and in ten minutes I 'jvas asleep—nor did anything disturb my rest until the sun breaking through the windows aroused me. I looked at my watch; it was 9 o’clock, and I dressed hastily, making my toilet in the adjoining bathroom. Then I descended the stairs, lured by a sound that was incongrous after the aspect of my uncle and his abode had become firmly established in my mind. It was the voice of a woman —singing!

The owner of the voice I encoun¬ tered in the lower hallway as I rounded a turn, and both the song and the singer stopped abruptly.

“Oh,” she said.

I was conscious of an aureole of golden curls, a piquant face and a trim figure in a light-colored dress.

“I beg your pardon,” I said, “you must be Miss Darling; I am Tom Ranee, Dr. Brand’s nephew; I came last 1 night. ”

This information I blurted out in a single sentence, hastily, lest I frighten away this vision of loveli¬ ness, like a butterfly in a barracks. The colors had departed from her face at the sudden encounter but flooded back again, rendering her far more lovely. She nodded in compre¬ hension.

“My—Dr. Brand—told me you might come; I didn’t know, of course —I am very happy to meet you.”

She extended one dainty hand and I took it gratefully. Oh, yes, I de662


cided, this would be an interesting adventure! I may perhaps expose a somewhat precipitate nature when I admit that already at first sight I was half in love with this girl—I who had been heart-whole and proof against the sex during my twenty-five years of life. . . . She -was exquisite— there is no other word—delicate yet not of the fragile type; her eyes were a cornflower blue, and sincerity and wholesomeness were evident in their clear glances. I wondered what her first name might be.

‘ ‘ Dr. Brand is in the dining room; he has just started breakfast; you can join him.” She nodded toward the door.

“Do you mean to say that you cook for him ? ’’

She laughed ripplingly: “Oh, yes; I'm cook and secretary all in one. I run over early and get breakfast, and before leaving in the evening I get dinner. We skip lunch,” she added whimsically.

I could not fathom it! This deli¬ cately beautiful girl who would have been the cynosure of all eyes on Michigan Boulevard or Fifth Ave¬ nue, satisfied to live in this out-of-theway hole and to cook and slave for this queer old uncle of mine. It was too much to understand all at once. Perhaps, I reflected, he paid her well —or possibly he had rendered her a great service which she was trying to repay. I remembered he was a doc¬ tor—and a famous one. Well, I should leara all later on. Meanwhile a healthy appetite lured me to the dining room where Uncle Carl was ensconced behind a paper. He laid it down as I entered and nodded grimly.

“All quiet last night,” I ventured, nfter the good-mornings were said.

“I am afraid,” he returned, rather caustically, “it would not have • roubled you had the house been -truck by lightning.”

I laughed sheepishly. ‘ * I was more

tired than I thought,” I said in ex¬ tenuation.

“After breakfast,” he declared, “I’ll tell you something more about my reason for bringing you here. ’ ’

I ate for a space in silenee. Final¬ ly I made another venture.

“ I just met your secretary,” I observed, quite casually.. “Miss Dar¬ ling, isn't it? She is charming.”

He looked at me for a moment with a cold and calculating gaze. Then he nodded and grunted a single word: “Humph!”

After that I desisted and we de¬ voted our attentions exclusively to the viands which had been placed there by Miss Darling, who did not put in an appearance, much to my disappointment. Evidently she dined alone in the kitchen, probably, I de¬ cided, of her own volition.

T he meal completed, Uncle Carl led the way into the living room and motioned me to a seat as before.

“I’m not going to disguise the fact,” he said, abruptly, once the door was closed, ‘ ‘ that I am living in dread of an attack; and that I sent for you because I need a strong arm in case of danger.”

“What kind of attack?” I asked with almost equal abruptness. I was thinking that he was rather careless in subjecting a delicate girl like Miss Darling to such a menace, and it made me cool toward him.

He hesitated a moment. “I can not tell you that—at present—except that I mean a physical danger—com¬ bined with a mental one.”

“From a man, or men?”

‘ ‘ I—I don’t know! ’ ’

“You don’t know?” I echoed his words. “I don’t understand.”

“I don’t expect you to do so,” he retorted. “All I ask is that you aid in case of—the need arising.”

“And Miss Darling?” I could not help asking.

FROM THE PIT


“Is well able to take care of her¬ self.”

“You mean she knows?”

“As much as—you do.”

“But not,” I said, shrewdly, “as much as you know?”

He did not answer. In fact he sat listening intently, and although I followed his example I could detect no untoward sound; indeed the only sound was one that brought joy to my ears—the voice of the girl, sing¬ ing again. I looked at my uncle’s face for some softening, but there was not the slightest relaxation in the hard lines of his craggy features, which now, by daylight, were more rugged than in the artificial light of the night before.

“Well,” I said, finally, “what do you want me to do, now I’m here? How long do you wish me to stay?”

“I want you to keep on the alert, always,” he said, coming quite sud¬ denly back to - normal after the strained attitude of listening. “Have your gun handy; at night especially, I want you to help me keep watch. We will divide the time in equal parts and alternate. Tonight, for instance, you will retire at 9 o’clock and arise at 1. I will then retire.”

“But I don’t understand—watch for what?”

“For anything unusual that may occur.. It may come in any form.”

“What?”

“The danger. It may come at night; it may come in the broad day¬ light; it may come from within or from without. Or it may never come at all.”

“Then how long do you wish me to stay?”

“Until it comes, or else until I learn by some other avenue that the danger is past. I can’t explain, and if I did you wouldn’t understand, Tom. ’ ’

It was his ffrst use of my given

name, and somehow it warmed me toward him. I began even to feel a trace of pity for this strong man, this man with a record for high achievement in the world of science, hiding away here almost in the wilderness from a nameless dread. Then my thoughts went back to the girl.

“Who is Miss Darling?” I asked quite suddenly.

“Ah,” he said, with a flicker of interest in his cold eyes. “You seem unduly interested in the young wo¬ man.”

“How could I help being?—it is so odd, her being here at all and cook¬ ing—why, she could be-”

“How do you know what her mo¬ tives or wishes may be?” he began almost angrily, but softened at once. “Listen, my boy,” he went on, “I saved her mother once when she had been given up to die—by means of a simple operation. Five years longer she. was able to keep her with her, and she has never forgotten. They were poor and I asked no fee. She would give her life, I believe, for me.”

It was as I had suspected. Yet I could not get over the feeling that he was exacting rather heavy tribute now for a charitable deed in the past. However, it was too early to make decisions; later she would perhaps tell me herself. I let it go at that and recapitulated..

“Then,” I said, “you want me simply as a bodyguard; I am to keep watch at certain times by night and all the time by day. And you will tell me when I am relieved.”

“That’s it,” he agreed. “As to your work—I do not know under what circumstances you left, but I will say this—no matter what the outcome of this affair; no matter what happens to me—you will never have to work again unless you want to.”



It was generous and fairly took my breath away. I could only say “thank you,” but after a moment, I added: ‘ ‘ Count on me, Uncle Carl. I think you will understand that my having come as I did proves I had no such expectations; I felt it my duty in spite of what-”

“Yes, yes, I know,” he interrupt¬ ed, hastily. “It is all right.”

“Well, then,” I insisted, “if I’m to be of any real help to you, give me some suggestion of what form this danger may assume—of what I shall look out for.”

“I told you-” he began, but I

would not be put off thus easily.

“I am no child,” I exclaimed. “Tell me something at least—is it man or woman?—young or old -?”

“It may be neither,” he began, impressively. ‘ ‘ I mean—there is something I can’t explain. There may be one—there may be two—one I can deal with—the other—I don’t know. ’ ’

“Uncle Carl—what do you mean?”

But he only shook his head grim¬ ly, and turning, stalked abruptly out of the room. Was he mad? The thought flashed across my mind, but I rejected it when I remembered the girl. I went across and raised the shade from the window, which ldbked out upon a tangled mass of flowers and weeds, once a garden, now gone to seed. And among these disordered shrubs a form was moving—that of Miss Darling. I opened the sash with difficulty and the noise disturbed her. She looked up with a startled smile.

“Did you have a nice breakfast?” she asked.

“Heavenly,” I replied. Instantly all thoughts of my uncle and his peculiar crotchet vanished from my mind. She was there, the morning •was beautiful, the sun played in her hair and turned it to spun gold; the

flowers became enchanted blossoms, the tangled, garden a king’s pleasance.

“Wait,” I called, “I’m coming out.”

I shut the window and hastened around to the door, and a moment later stood beside her awkwardly in what had become a shining field of Arcady.

“Miss Darling,” I said, “please tell me your given name—somehow I feel that I simply must know it.”

She laughed at me, white teeth and red lips forming a combination that was irresistible. Dimples played in cheeks that bloomed with health and youth; the soft wind caught the tendrils of her golden hair and blew them distractingly across her broad low forehead.

“My first name is—Vida.”

“Vida Darling—what a wonderful combination!”

I must have betrayed my feelings, so close to the surface, for she flushed and turned to the flowers in which she was apparently working, trying to bring a bit of order from the chaos of neglect.

“Are you—happy to be here?” I could not help the question.

She looked at me again, seriously enough.

“I don’t know,” she said. “I owe him so much—and there are things I don’t understand. Perhaps I’m not quite myself at times—I for¬ get some things .... others I remem¬ ber. Yes—I’m happy enough, and” —she hesitated and then smiled ador¬ ably—“I’m glad you’ve come—you are strong and you—you can help.”

“But what is this danger?”

“I—I can’t explain.”

Always that phrase—both from my uncle and this girl: “I can’t ex¬ plain.” Well, I told myself, I would do my best to find out what they had so much difficulty in explaining.

FROM THE PIT



T hree weeks of what appeared to be senseless precautions pre¬ ceded the events which culminated in the strange solution of the puzzle of my uncle and his beautiful secretary.

Between watching at night and by day, I still found ample opportunity of cultivating Yida Darling, and rather to my surprize I found that my uncle made no effort to discour¬ age a growing intimacy which could lead but to one conclusion.

Exactly three weeks from the day when I first heard her singing, I asked Yida to become my wife—and she consented. I could hardly be¬ lieve it myself. It was strange enough that so attractive a girl, who, it seemed to me, possessed all the vir¬ tues, could have gone on so long without having been captured by someone. Perhaps, I decided, she had lived a secluded life. I knew she was an orphan, had had a convent education and four years before had come to my uncle. Three years be¬ fore that had occurred the operation on her mother which had restored Mrs. Darling to health. So, accord¬ ing to Uncle Carl’s words, she had been an orphan for two years. She was, as she told me, twenty-five. Al¬ though about my age, she seemed much younger than I was. Perhaps it was her innocence, her sweetness, her general air of girlishness which kept her almost a child. My good fortune in winning her promise to become my wife was still dazzling my senses when the first untoward event occurred to mar what had be¬ come an idyl for me, even if it was a nightmare to my uncle.

It. was the night of my late watch —that is, I went on duty at 1 o’clock and served till daylight. It was our custom to sit in the living room, with the door to the hallway wide open, thus commanding a view of the stairs leading to the bedrooms above. A

fire in the grate made it cheerful in the big room with its littered and over-large center table. I kept my automatic at my elbow, with a dish of sandwiches flanking the weapon. Also there was a spirit lamp on which I could heat coffee to keep me awake. With plenty of books and papers, this had become quite a pleasant job, if monotonous. At times I wished something would happen to bring matters to a head. There were several reasons why I wanted to have it over and done with—not the least being that marriage between Vida and my¬ self could hardly be considered until the trouble, whatever it might be, was at an end. Honestly, I don’t think my uncle’s promised financial reward for my services occurred to me. I would have been willing to go back to Nevada and work like a dog to keep Vida beside me and happy.

Some of these thoughts chased themselves through my mind that night as I sat in the living room try¬ ing to read but finding it increasing¬ ly difficult to keep my mind fixed on the printed page.

I wondered just how much Vida knew about the matter. She had told me nothing more, despite our com¬ pact and our love. If only the con¬ ventions would have permitted her to share some of those long hours with me, what a heaven it would have been! Just to have seen her sitting under the shaded glow of the read¬ ing lamp would have been the great¬ est joy I could conceive. Well, some day—soon, I hoped—this would come to pass—when she was my wife!

It was while this sweet dream was passing through my mind that I first heard that intermittent tapping, as of someone with a walking stick, coming slowly along a frosty road. But I doubted if it was caused by anything of the sort. It was so regular—al¬ most like the drip of a faucet. In¬ deed, at first I believed that it was something of the kind; then I dis666


carded this idea* because the sound was coming nearer and nearer!

Tap-tap-tap!

Yes, it was nearer, almost at the porch, it seemed. Then it suddenlyceased, and the silence of the waning night was unbroken save for the dis¬ tant crowing of a cock greeting the approaching day.

It was pitch-dark as yet; through the window, from which the curtain was drawn and the shade raised, I could see only the reflection of my own lamp and the room, of myself seated by the table; the odd optical illusion which everyone has noticed and which in times gone by suggest¬ ed the famous “Dr. Pepper ghost il¬ lusion” which startled even the scien¬ tific world.

I strove to penetrate this, but without avail. It came to me uncom¬ fortably that while exterior objects were invisible to me, I was plainly apparent to whoever or whatever might be without. I wished the shade had been drawn. But I made no move. If something were about to happenAnd at that moment came a guard¬ ed knock at the door!

I am afraid that my hair rose stiffly on my head; I know that a chill ran down my spine and that in¬ voluntarily I seized the butt of the revolver. Something in its solid coldness reassured me and I dropped down upon all fours, still holding the weapon. I did this to escape my posi¬ tion of high visibility through the window. Once beyond the range of the aperture, I rose to my feet and noiselessly crept into the hall. My uncle’s orders had been to arouse him at the first sign of danger. But how could I do so without also alarming the visitor—whoever it might be? I decided to do my own investigating, for the time being at least. Any un¬ usual sound, I knew, would bring Uncle Carl, always a light sleeper, down at once.

I reached the door, and with my revolver ready, the ancient chain fixed in position, opened it a crack.

“Who’s there?” I whispered.

But the vision that confronted me in the darkness of the doorway, but slightly relieved by the radiance from the inner room, caused me hastily to detach the chain and swing the por¬ tal wide. Vida stood on the thresh¬ old!

Pale as a ghost she was, with an ex¬ pression distorting her features that was utterly alien to them, an expres¬ sion of diabolic hate, which gave place to fear and then faded as she fell forward, a dead weight, in my arms. As she did so I noted a long, dark rod or staff which she held clasped in one hand. This clattered to the floor. After all, it had been the tapping of this which I heard. I carried her to a chair. My uncle, aroused, was coming down the stairs and in a moment stood beside me. His eyes fell on the stick. He picked it up gingerly, looked at it for a mo¬ ment and placed it carefully in a bookcase by the mantel.

“Vida,” I whispered, “what is it?”

She was coming out of her faint and presently opened her eyes sleep¬ ily—and smiled! Then suddenly she sprang to her feet.

“Where am I?—oh, my God!—I

She saw my uncle and then her eyes turned to mine again and the fear departed from them.

“I must have been sleep-walking.”

Yet she was fully attired; perhaps she had dressed while in a somnambu¬ listic condition.

“Don’t you recall anything?” asked Uncle Carl.

She shook her head. “No. For a moment, when I first awoke, I thought I had a hideous memory, but it must have been a dream—it’s all gone now.”

FROM THE PIT


“It is what I had dreaded," mut¬ tered my uncle, and then got the stick from its place.

“Tell me, Vida, do you remember this ? ’ ’

He held it before her and she es¬ sayed to take it, but he drew it away.

“No,” she answered, “what is it?”

“Nothing—I-” He paused.

“You will have to stay here now, my dear. Mrs. Bums will probably never miss you at the house where you’re staying. And it is nearly daylight. If people wish to talk—they’ll have to talk, that’s all!”

He replaced the stick and locked the door of the bookcase carefully.

Like one in a dream, I had listened to all this and failed utterly to make sense of it. What had the stick to do with it? Why had Vida come here? —in her sleep, if that was it—and why that concentrated hatred in her face when she first arrived? Was it for my uncle? for me? I dismissed both conjectures as absurd.

We spent the remaining hours of darkness together, Vida curled in the big armchair by the fire, sleeping peacefully as a child; my uncle and I, silently smoking and listening. But nothing more occurred and the sun’s rays at last slanted through the win¬ dows and chased away the last vestige of the night.

T 7’ida, awakened by the sun, rubbed

* her eyes and sprang up. Mem¬ ory returned quickly—memory of her experience only from the moment of her awakening in the room. All else had been blotted out.

“I’ll get breakfast,” she said, and vanished in the direction of the kitchen.

Uncle Carl said no more of the matter to her; but to me, while she was busy preparing the morning meal, he said, “I think matters are coming to a head. ’ ’

“How?” I asked vacuously.

“This is the first genuine proof that he—that it might reach us, no matter what safeguards are estab¬ lished. The dread of this has weighed upon my shoulders for months—per¬ haps it is better that it has come to this.”

“Uncle Carl,” I said, “please tell me more—how can I help, if you keep me in complete ignorance?”

He looked kindly toward me; in¬ deed, of late, I had begun to believe that his severe exterior covered a heart of gold.

“I—do not know what to say be¬ yond what I’ve already told you of this menace. To explain all would take too long—and it may not become necessary. You love Vida, of course.”

“Indeed, yes; I meant to speak to you; she has promised to marry me if all goes well; that’s why I’m so anxious, too. I mean, in addition to my desire to serve you-”

He smiled at my impetuous, schoolboy speech.

“It is well. She loves you, I am sure. Well, if anything happens to me—shield her against anything that may occur. Do you promise?”

“I swear it,” I responded fervent¬ ly.

“Good. Now be on your guard—I have an intuition that tonight may be the crisis—there may be one, there may be two-”

With this enigmatical sentence, he turned away and left me standing, my mind filled with thoughts that I could not define even to my own satisfaction.

Breakfast over, we all three went into the living room. To keep her mind occupied as well as his own, Uncle Carl gave Vida some dictation on his text-book—a labor of years, evidently—and I went out in the yard and walked through the tangle of shrubbery, wondering what to do, arriving at no conclusion.

The day passed slowly and night fell. Vida had decided to defy the



conventions for the occasion, at the earnest desire of my uncle, who con¬ fided to us both his fears of some sort of attack that night.

“I would rather you were here— after what occurred last night—than that you should be absent. We must be ready—and together—when the blow falls.”

Vida bowed her head in acknowl¬ edgment of the wisdom of his de¬ cision.

“You take the spare room,” he said to her, “and Tom and I will watch here in the living room.”

And this arrangement -was carried out. At 10 o’clock, Vida went to her room and bade me a sweet good-night as we parted- at the foot of the stairs.

“Remember, dear,” I whispered, “that nothing shall harm you while I live to guard you against the world. ’ ’

“I know,” she breathed; “good night!”

I went back to Uncle Carl and we put out the lights at his suggestion.

“I want to draw their—his fire,” he explained. “I want it over and done with at whatever cost.”

As we sat in the darkness, I tried vainly to distinguish his features, but without any degree of success. He was simply a blur against the dark shadows of the room. I had my flash¬ light at my side, the pistol also was ready. Uncle Carl, too, was armed.

npHE hours dragged by silently,

-*■ measured by the ticking of the clock which pealed sonorously at the half-hourly intervals. It had just finished striking 12 when a sound broke the stillness—an unwonted sound as of someone or something stirring on the veranda without.

I felt rather than saw Uncle Carl move slightly, tensing his muscles, as did I, so I knew he had heard it, too. But neither of us spoke.

It came again, that furtive, slither¬

ing sound; one could hardly call it the sound of footsteps.

And then came a sudden gust of wind—I had not before noticed that it was blowing—the hall door, the main entrance, was open. And then I knew that, purposely no doubt, Uncle Carl had left it unlocked.

“Get ready,” he breathed.

Something was coming into the hallway—I felt again that inrush of air, and it seemed like the wind off a desert, hot and uncanny. And then the darkness of the doorway to the living room was rendered even dark¬ er by a black something that filled it.

“Lights!” called Uncle Carl.

I snapped on the flashlight, direct¬ ing its rays toward the door; at the same instant he switched on the room lights.

What I saw I find difficult to de¬ scribe, even now, after the passage of years. A man stood in the en¬ trance, wrapped in a black cloak. He was tall and spare. His cloak muffled all but the eyes—eyes that seemed to emit a radiance of their own, like twin streaks of green fire. And be¬ hind him loomed another shape, gro¬ tesque, dark, heavy and clumsy. It seemed somehow impalpable, so much so that then, as now, I could not de¬ termine whether it was shadow or substance. Yet it moved, I swear, separately and apart from the other figure. And I was conscious of a fetid odor, of that warm, sickening air.

“Where is she?” A dull, inhuman voice boomed from the first figure.

“Where you will never get her, you devil,” screamed my uncle, and at the same instant he fired.

I followed suit as the figure lurched into the room toward him. The thing in the background seemed to grow and envelop us all for an in¬ stant but my uncle screamed to me wildly: “Tom, Tom—come beside me —here. ’ ’

FROM THE PIT


He wag muttering some incoherent words, like an incantation, as I took up my stand beside him; and then the cloaked figure—seemingly unhurt by our fire—was upon us. The other intruder, as my uncle continued speaking in what seemed a foreign tongue, receded until it crouched, a black blur at the entrance to the room. The first figure, obviously human, whatever its companion might be, seized Uncle Carl, and as the cloak slipped from the face I saw a hideous countenance, seared as with fire, almost featureless, but cruel as hell. It wound long arms about my uncle, who seemed to have become suddenly a helpless prey to the on¬ slaught. He seemed exhausted as by some tremendous mental effort. Not so, however, was I affected. I pumped my automatic, and as I did so was conscious of a woman’s scream. Vida!

At last my shots had taken effect. The creature with the face of horror reeled and relaxed its clutch, and Uncle Carl, released from the hold, slipped into a chair, unconscious. The figure fell in a heap and I bound¬ ed across it toward the doorway. I could hear Vida’s screams, and that black thing barred my passage. I can not describe it; perhaps there are no words in our vocabulary that are equal to the task.

I heard Uncle Carl, roused from his momentary stupor, call out: “Wait, Tom, wait!"

I paused for an instant, and again I heard him repeating that formula of words which now sounded like Latin phrases, but nope that were familiar to me. And as I live, before me that dark, unclean thing receded, dwindled, vanished! The strange odor, the hot breath, vanished with it and in a moment I had passed into the hall, and Vida, crumpled in a heap at the foot of the stairs, was held tightly in my arms. Thank God, she was alive.

I turned and saw my uncle stoop¬ ing over the man on the floor.

He rose from his position with a look of such relief on his face that I breathed a prayer of thanksgiving.

“It’s over," he said. “He’s dead. Take Vida into the dining room— there’s nothing to fear now—and come back here.”

I did his bidding. The girl was again unconscious, but breathing regularly. I placed her on a couch, which incongruously stood in the din¬ ing room, and covered her over care¬ fully, for she was in her nightdress. I turned the lights full on, closed the door, and came back to the living room.

U ncle carl was standing looking down at the huddled form on the floor. He looked up at my approach and motioned me to come nearer.

“There lies the greatest fiend that the present century has produced," he said. “He is dead. I do not know which of us killed him.' But in any case, I will shoulder all the blame."

“There can be no blame," I inter¬ posed, “for they came like thieves in the night—it was our right to defend our property and our lives 'against marauders. ’ ’

“Right," he admitted. “You say ‘they’!" He paused and looked keenly into my faee. “You, too, saw —the other?"

“The other man?"

“It was no man,” he replied; “it was nothing for which we have an accurate name. It no longer exists —it was what I can only describe as a ‘familiar’.’’

I shook my head. The term was one with which I had no acquaint¬ ance.

“It is a long story and you shall have it all now," he went on. “But first, we must dispose of this body— and in the morning we will see the authorities. How is Vida?”

“She seems in a trance."



“That exactly describes her condi¬ tion,” said my uncle. “I can revive her—perhaps I had better do that now, so that she, too, may hear all the story, of which now she knows only a part.”

I followed him into the dining room to where my darling lay cov¬ ered by a spread, looking angelically beautiful. Her bosom rose and fell rhythmically in what was apparently natural slumber, but I knew she was in a still deeper sleep than that in¬ duced by nature.. Uncle Carl rum¬ maged in the sideboard and brought out a bottle of ammonia.

“This will sometimes arouse the subject of a hypnotic trance,” he said.

“It—she is hypnotized?”

“Yes—the devil’s weapon. But the hypnotist is dead. Sometimes only the one inducing the trance can restore the patient or subject, but I think I shall succeed without him— I must do so.”

He bent over the girl and spoke to her.

“Vida,” he said, “awake.”

He held the bottle of ammonia close to her nostrils, and then quick¬ ly handing it to me, clapped his hands loudly. To my joy, I saw the color rise in her pale cheeks, and her breast was convulsed with some un¬ toward effort; suddenly «he sat up and looked wildly about her—into my face and into Uncle Carl’s. Then she burst into an uncontrollable fit of weeping.

“Thank God!” breathed my uncle, and I echoed his words. In a mo¬ ment I had gathered her, spread and all, in my arms, and she wept un¬ restrainedly on my shoulder.

Presently she ceased, and realizing for the first time the scantiness of her attire, drew away with a little cry.

“Tom—Dr. Carl—what has hap¬ pened? I don’t remember-”

“All is well,” said my uncle. “He is dead.”

“Dead! Where?”

“In the living room. Wait here, my dear, till Tom and I remove the body, and then we will have a talk. Or better, run upstairs and dress— by that time there will be nothing to disturb you in—the other room.”

I took her to the door of her room and came hastily downstairs to where my uncle had already partly com¬ posed the limbs of the dead man and thrown the cloak over the evil face, evil in death as in life. Together we lifted the body and carried it into a disused room where we laid it decent¬ ly on an old cot bed. Then we came back to the living room.

Vida called that she was ready and I went up and brought her down.

Then, the lights full on, the fire going, we heard from the lips of Uncle Carl the story which to this day is as strange in the telling as it is difficult to believe. But I saw— there can be no doubt!

‘‘Ceven years ago,” he began, “I

^ was in active practise in Chi¬ cago, but already I had begun to specialize almost exclusively upon diseases of the brain. Unlike some of my more hidebound confreres, I gave a great deal of attention to psychology, psycho-analysis (though the phrase was then unused, if it was known) and metaphysics. I be¬ lieved firmly that somewhere there was a connection between that im¬ palpable thing we call the soul and the material organism called brain, that somewhere between matter and mind lay the splution of our vexa¬ tious problems. Thus I became inti¬ mate with the man who lies dead in there—whose name I shall withhold, at present. He was a brilliant scholar, but his metier lay along the lines of suggestive therapeutics to even a greater degree than did mine. Hypnosis was his hobby, and he had developed it to a degree far beyond that of any of our modem operaFROM THE PIT


tors. And he was, at heart, a devil.

“He was older than I. I knew nothing of his family, of his home life. That he was unmarried, I learned by some chance remark he made—that was all. I did not even know where he lived. But we had long discussions in either my office or his, which he frequented at irregu¬ lar intervals, sometimes sitting far into the night, arguing, speculating, sometimes quarreling. He claimed that good and evil were relative terms and that moral qualities were merely the inventions of man—hav¬ ing no bearing on the deeper things of life. I maintained that some¬ where in that mysterious organism called brain lay the controlling ele¬ ment that had to do with the traits of good and evil. I believed that some day I or someone else would discover the means of reaching this element, and perhaps by a psychiatric operation removing entirely the tend¬ ency to do or even think evil. He laughed at this theory. ‘It is all a matter outside the brain,’ he assert¬ ed, ‘and I have delved into studies that will give me the ability, I hope, to control the powers of evil as one controls a horse by means of the reins and bit.’

‘ ‘ One night, about seven years ago, when I had already known this man for some little time, I was aroused by a ring at my doorbell. My name was on the door-plate, but I seldom had patients at home or was called on a case out of hours. Being unmarried, alone, I had not even a servant then, so I answered the door myself. On the step stood Vida.”

He paused and looked toward the girl, who nodded slowly, flushing at the remembrance.

“She told me her mother was ill and begged me to come. The house was only a few blocks distant. I ac¬ companied her, and on the w T ay she explained that she was home tem¬ porarily from the convent and that

her mother had had an ‘accident.’ When I saw the poor woman, I knew that the accident was in. reality nothing short of a brutal attack. I restored Mrs. Darling to conscious¬ ness, and then I demanded to know the cause of the injury—she had ap¬ parently been beaten. Both she and Vida refused at first to tell—and then, at my insistence, admitted that a man had been responsible. This man lies dead in that other room. He was the brother of Mrs.. Darling— Vida’s uncle.

“But the shock came when I learned the name of the devil who had thus attacked a defenseless wo¬ man simply because she begged him to desist in some practise that was becoming abhorrent to her—he lived with the mother and daughter—it was the name of my erstwhile friend and fellow investigator.

“Mrs. Darling was more seriously injured than I at first suspected, but I performed a very slight operation w'hich saved her life.

‘ ‘ The gratitude of both mother and child was affecting, and we became devoted friends. I can say—now that she is no more—how deeply I learned to love Vida’s mother. She was the image, in a matured way, of her daughter. And she was in every respect a wonderful woman. But I could not conceive of myself as mar¬ ried—I was already wedded to sci¬ ence. Furthermore I was consider¬ ably older than she.

“I called the brother to account the next day and told him frankly what I thought of him. He laughed like a fiend. But he heeded my warn¬ ing and for a long time did not mo¬ lest his sister again. Vida came to work with me as my secretary after a year or so. She has been like a daughter ever since.

“And then one day, about two years ago, that devil again attacked his sister, and from the effects of this injury she did not recover. How672


ever, a charge of murder could not be placed against him. The actual physical hurts did not directly in¬ duce death. It was the mental enmi¬ ty and the horror of the man and his practises which resulted in her grad¬ ual fading away. Thus he was in every sense morally to blame. Why did I not denounce him? His sister begged me not to do so, as did Vida. And I acceded to their wishes. Then she—died.”

For an instant my uncle bent his head, and Vida’s eyes were suffused with tears. I reached over and put an arm about her as he resumed.

“I forgot everything then but my grief. I knew that I should have sacrificed all for my love, and now it was too late. Then came the thought of revenge. He should pay!

“No matter by what means I in¬ duced him to come to my office again in a friendly way, following the trouble and my accusations which had estranged us. I had learned things about him, meanwhile, from both women—from Vida and, before her death, from Mrs. Darling— things which were too unsavory, too horrible—yes, too transcendently ter¬ rible—to accept. He dabbled in for¬ bidden things, and made incursions into a realm of which you can have no cognizance. The women knew only that he performed strange ex¬ periments in his laboratory and that they found dumb creatures, a black cockerel and a he-goat, which had been killed in a revolting manner. Once, they found the pentagram, with mystic symbols, sketched in chalk on the floor of his study. Al¬ ways there was an indefinable, an evil odor, in his rooms. They heard him talking to himself at night—but. it sounded as if he were addressing another. Once there were heavy sounds as of some altercation in which things were overturned. He had cried out, and to their questions answered only that he had knocked

over a table and hurt his foot. Some¬ times there was a trace of unusual heat in the rooms.

“My meetings with Mrs. Darling had been invariably at my office, where Vida was working. Oddly, her uncle had made no effort to prevent her working with me. Perhaps he was glad to be rid of her that he might carry on his experiments the more safely.

“As I say, I induced him to come to see me at my office on several oc¬ casions, and one evening shortly after his victim had passed on, we talked later than usual. I was prepared, for I too had been pursuing my studies assiduously. I drugged the wine he drank, and when he was un¬ conscious, administered an anesthetic. I placed him on my operating table and prepared him for an operation. The brain! That was the seat of the trouble. If I could remove that evil tendency by the knife I might make him a worthy member of society, even a valuable one. Also I would prove my theory. And if I failed— well, he deserved death!

“The operation was a success—in so far that he recovered rapidly un¬ der my careful nursing. I had re¬ moved a tiny particle of the organic matter that constituted what I be¬ lieved to be the seat of the emotion of evil. But I had made an error. Instead, I had removed the part which contained whatever small amount of good tendency was resi¬ dent in his brain. In a word, I had constituted him a human monster a hundred times worse than before. For in the worst of us there is always some slight inclination to good; in him there now remained no redeem¬ ing feature. I began to note the ef¬ fect as he recovered strength follow¬ ing the terrific shock of the opera¬ tion, slight as it had been in some respects. He knew me, but not as in the past. He had forgotten my significance in the scheme of things,

PROM THE PIT

€73

he had forgotten his sister and Vida. He had forgotten everything but that certain faces were familiar—as mine. But he was now a cruel animal. He caught the cat I kept in my office, and had I not stopped him in time would have dismembered it in sheer cruelty. He was a monster!

“I let him go. God forgive me, I let loose this hideous thing upon hu¬ manity, believing it would soon de¬ stroy itself. For a long time it dis¬ appeared and I believed that the monster was dead. Then I received a letter from—him!

“He had recovered his memory— but his evil nature was still supreme. He knew instinctively what had hap¬ pened because I had often aired my theories to him. And he wished only to wreak vengeance on me. Not, he carefully explained, because he re¬ gretted losing the slight remnant of good that had remained in his con¬ sciousness but because I had tricked him and employed him as a subject for my experiment! He meant to kill me and—Vida! He bade me be¬ ware of his powers, of his hypnotic strength, by which even at a distance he could control his victims. He proved this—as you have recently had cause to know—when he subjected Vida to his will, sending her with that stick to—kill! For the stick con¬ tains a wicked blade which only a spring in the handle releases. You had not discovered it. And that blade is steeped in deadly virus. But. he reckoned without Vida’s essential goodness. He could not compel her hypnotically to commit a crime, for it was not in her nature to do so.

“He failed in his attempt. . . . but I am ahead of my story. For months he pursued us with threatening let¬ ters. For myself I cared little, but I dreaded what might come to Vida. For latterly, the letters conveyed the suggestion that she would be the one to suffer and that through her he would reach me. But as yet the maniw. T--S

festations, if I may so describe them, were witnessed, or felt, by me only. At night I would awake to feel a hot breath in my face; to detect a fetid odor too horrible to be endured; to become aware of something that mopped and mowed in the shadows of the room. It came, I know, like that thing tonight, from the abyss itself—from the very pits of hell! It was wearing me down even as I told myself it could not be so. At least, it was the quintessence of hate, focused upon us, and against this hideous thing even my science was helpless.

“You know now why I could not explain, Tom. You would have thought me mad! But you saw—you saw for yourself, tonight. That awful shape which shrank and van¬ ished before the words I spoke, a formula learned at the cost of dili¬ gent research in the ancient volumes known to but few living men, remem¬ bered—thank heaven!—tonight in time to save us all. By certain in¬ cantations, creatures from that netherworld may be summoned forth, I verily believe. And by opposing words they may be driven back whence they came. You may say it was all hypnotism—that we saw only as the audiences of Hindoo fakers see their marvelous feats, such as the fabled rope trick—but I know better.

“We came here to escape, a few months ago. It. was the last stand in this unequal fight, literally good against evil. I could not touch him with the law—I waited for him to come that I might kill him and by the words I had learned, drive his evil companion back to the abyss. Then I sent for you—I needed a strong arm, Vida needed more than my frail protection—Vida who knew only that the creature once known as her uncle had become an implacable enemy.

“And, as I had hoped, on the fail¬ ure of his hypnotic effort to influence



Vida to slay me (for I assume he did not know of your presence here, Tom), he determined to come himself —accompanied by the dread thing— to achieve his purpose. The rest you know.”

Y eaks have passed. Vida and I have long been happily married and my uncle is dead. He never again spoke of his theory regarding good and evil and the possibility of a material operation on the brain controlling these qualities. Indeed, he retired from all active practise or even experiment following the down¬ fall of his enemy.

Vida and I try to believe it was all

a case of hypnosis developed to the nth degree. The other thing, in spite of what I saw, we can not accept. Sufficient unto their time the foul practises of those remote sorcerers of which, perchance, the man I saw slain was an unholy revenant. Steeped in blood, made hideous by sacrifices of diabolic cruelty, wrapped in the smoke from laurel, cypress and alder, protected by the magic circle of evocation and with altars crowned with asphodel and vervain, they worked their spells mayhap in the dim and shadowy past. Today they have no place, and I, for one, refuse to accept, in this respect, even the evi¬ dence of my own senses.

MEMORIES

By A. LESLIE

Out of the shuddering past they come, Croaking with ghastly mirth,

And the dry wind flutters in rags o’ shroud From the graves that gave them birth—

(Oh the white of the stars^and moon tonight Is the ash of bleached-out bones) —

And they mutter and gibber of this and that In noseless and toothy tones:

Raw red gold—raw red of lust—

Shards of a shattered shrine;

Shadows of stars on an upturned face:

God! and that face was mine!

Shadow shapes in the empty dark;

Grim things that I may not tell;


[THE END]

============================================================
THE BLACK CASTLE_MARC R. SCHORER & AUGUST W
by Derleth
============================================================
And a woman’s lips stained scarlet With the bloody wine of hell!

A 'Tale of Astral Vengeance

The Black Castle

By MARC R. SCHORER and AUGUST W. DERLETH

T HE black castle high up on the cliff stood solitary and lone, silhouetted against the moon. By day the castle was prom¬ inent, but by night, in the full moon¬ light, it was much more so. It stood in relief; there were no trees, only a few shrubs that grew along the ir¬ regular sides of the mountain. To the fore the cliff was sheer, and, top¬ ping this declivity, the ominous struc¬ ture looked malefically down upon the little village of Cheveaux.. The village was completely enveloped in shadow, for the moon had not yet risen to a sufficient height to dimin¬ ish the broad shadow of the moun¬ tain. Every soul in the peaceful village was in repose under the pleas¬ ing mantle of darkness upon it. The village was like a picture by an artist: all in darkness save a few thin wisps of smoke spiraling from several chimneys and rising until they were caught in the light of the moon streaming down upon the plain from above the castle, then dispersing and vanishing into the crisp air.

In sharp contrast to the calm of the exterior a grim drama was being enacted within the castle. In a large room in one of the turrets of the cha¬ teau the aged Count de Cheveaux sat at a ponderous oaken table. The moon cast a patch of light upon the floor, which, aided by the flickering gleam of the flambeaux in their brackets on the table and the fitful light from the flames of the fire in the grate, served to light up a portion of the room.

The room was almost bare. The walls, save for a coat-of-arms above the fireplace and a faded portrait of an ancient ancestor of the de Cheveaux exactly opposite it, were devoid of ornamentation. The paint¬ ed figure in the portrait gazed with great dignity at the coat-of-arms as if in approval. The floor likewise was bare of decoration. A few cumber¬ some chairs situated at the two entrances of the chamber gave the room an atmosphere of heaviness, of gloom. The firelight played upon a great skin stretched out upon the stone floor before the grate, and tho gleaming teeth in the head of the pelt shone malevolently. The sputtering flambeaux on the table disclosed the count’s pale features and made evi¬ dent the extreme agitation that held him in its grasp. His face twitched oddly and his hands trembled; he looked as if he were suffering from the palsy. He was writing, but not of his own volition, for his hand moved steadily and unhesitatingly across the parchment upon the table, while his glaring eyes were fixed with fierce intensity upon the lines of writ¬ ing. There were no sounds in the room save the crackling of the flames in the grate, the scratching of the pen upon the parchment, and the oc¬ casional eery sputtering of the flam¬ beaux.

Suddenly the hand quavered and ceased its motion; and the count seized the opportunity to re-read what had been written. His throat became dry and a violent trembling



shook his body as he read the lines his hand had written:

“Monsieur, I am here. I, Armand Champoy. I have come to speak to you tonight through my sole medium, your pen and hand. Does Monsieur remember me? My astral self gazes complacently down upon you. Perhaps, if Monsieur can not recall my name, he can bring to mind an incident of twelve months ago when he so calmly compelled me to dispose of my material self to favor his fortunes? Ah, Monsieur does, I perceive by his agitation! My widow suffers from the cold. Monsieur; my children starve, and I am helpless here. But you, ah. Monsieur, you cower about your fire in company of that simple-minded son of yours. Ah, Monsieur, you live life. But then, I have nought to complain about; I am free and can taste no ills: it is because of my mortal widow and my suffering chil¬ dren, Monsieur, that I complain.

“I can not help them. Monsieur. But— I can avenge the wrongs you have done them. The wrongs, Monsieur, that you have done for gold. I can avenge innumer¬ able sins committed for the sake of your fortunes. Does it seem foolish to you, Monsieur, that I should be writing this? That I, an astral, should threaten venge¬ ance? But it should not, for those black blots, those books on sorcery on your shelves have taught you overmuch. Yet you may wonder how I can avenge the wrongs you have done. Monsieur, and I shall tell you.”

The . hand started to move again and the count followed his pen with his eyes.

“It is simple, Monsieur, so simple. A rare experiment. Monsieur. Simply this: For a twelvemonth I have been gathering knowledge upon varied subjects, and my field is unbounded. Your son, Monsieur, has been a resident of this gloomy castle since he can remember, and his brain is crude and his soul is unrefined. But I, Monsieur, I am strong; my mind excels in all, Monsieur, but I have no body, and also. Monsieur, I seek revenge. My abode is here, here by your side, Monsieur. My solution is this. Day by day, night by night, I will cast my superior power against your son’s feeble will.. I will drive out his astral body, his soul, Monsieur, and I will enter and possess his body. Then, Monsieur, I will kill you, brutally, un¬ hesitatingly, as you deserve.”

The writing ceased, and the count • could move his hand at his will. He stared at the mute evidence of the astral. Suddenly he rose, and with an angry snarl he cast the parchment from him into the hungry flames in the grate. He rubbed his hands across his eyes, futilely endeavoring to blot out the words that danced maliciously before him. He clasped his fists and glared angrily into the fire. Slowly he turned, walked to¬ ward the main corridor of the castle, and was swallowed up in the thick darkness.

I t was two weeks later. The young Count de Cheveaux had acted strangely that day. His father had noticed this, and it impressed him. He pondered long upon it as he sat alone in his chamber. The more he tried not to think of the parchment which he had so vehemently thrown from him two weeks ago, the more he thought of it and associated it with his son’s strange behavior. The as¬ tral of that Champoy was getting in its fine work, mused de Cheveaux. He could see no way to stop it; for once in his life the Count de Che¬ veaux was helpless. The thought un¬ nerved him.

One day, some time later, the elder count observed his son watching him covertly through half-closed eyes. He thought at once of Armand Cham¬ poy. His son was twirling a heavy walking stick and he had been star¬ ing at his parent out of the comers of his eyes. The elder count frowned heavily at his son, but the latter seemed not to notice. However, he removed his gaze and placidly con¬ tinued to twirl his cane. The inci¬ dent bothered the count not a little, and soon he went to his library to consult his store of books on the black arts.

The winter slipped by and spring came. The village of Cheveaux was busy as a hive of bees. From the

THE BLACK CASTLE


other side of the mountain towering above the village came the rushing, roaring sound of a great waterfall as it tumbled down the mountainside from crag to crag, from ledge to ledge, until it struck the plain with a great noise and went rushing off to water the fertile fields of the peas¬ ants. The birds were nesting, and the early spring flowers were begin¬ ning to force their way up through last year’s leaves. The snowbanks were almost all gone; only here and there on the sides of the mountain a few were visible, and they too were fast melting under the warm rays of the April sun.

But inside the castle all was not so calm. The old count was pacing to and fro in his library. He was un¬ easy, and he had good cause to be so, for his books of black magic could not aid him in the predicament in which he now found himself.

A week ago his son had been taken ill. This was after a gradual de¬ cline. His illness could not be diag¬ nosed ; it seemed as if the patient was overcome by weariness, although he had never exerted himself to any harmful extent. For some time he lay in a coma, then suddenly he emerged and manifested a wish to rise. He had done so, healthier in mind and in body. At any other time it would have been a perfectly nat¬ ural occurrence, but now the aged count thought continually of Armand Champoy and his threat. His son did not seem the same to him. His ac¬ tions were so strange, so alien, so utterly foreign to his nature.

The elder Count de Cheveaux was very perturbed over an incident that had occurred during the day. His son had removed a long-bladed stilet¬ to from its rack in the library and had taken it to his chamber. The count knew, because he had watched him, had stealthily followed the youth and observed his every action.

T hat night a storm broke over the castle, shattering the placidity of the little village of Cheveaux, and for the first time the elements were in agreement with the life within the castle.

The aged count’s mind was in a turmoil, but one thought stood out above the agitated throng—his son was about to kill him; of that he was sure. That Champoy had succeeded in his evil purpose of possessing the body of his son during his recent illness. And he was brooding, brood¬ ing on the dreadful course that pre¬ sented itself to him as his only alter¬ native.

At length he came to a conclusion, and with guilty steps he withdrew from the room. A flash of lightning revealed him stepping through the doorway, and his hand clutched a sti¬ letto, the companion of the one his son had concealed in his chamber. He groped his way up the stone stair¬ way, and with each step his purpose became firmer. He would fool that Champoy, thwart him at his venge¬ ance. At his son’s doorway he paused and clutched the weapon a little tighter. He listened for sounds, but he heard nothing save the regular breathing of his son within. He pushed the door before him and slipped quietly into the room where his son slept.

The count emerged from the door¬ way, and his hand was empty. Silent¬ ly he trod down the stone steps, and quietly he resumed his seat in the library. The storm was becoming more violent with the passing of the hours. Idly he picked up the quill before him and toyed with it. He had thwarted Champoy at his own purpose. He smiled exultantly. But these thoughts were rudely interrupt¬ ed and his hopes were shattered, for suddenly he felt, his fingers tighten on the pen, and involuntarily his (Continued on page 719)

Here Are the Final Chapters of

DROME

By JOHN MARTIN LEAHY

The Story-So Far

M ilton Rhodes and Bill Carter penetrate the caverns beneath Mount Rainier and rescue Drorathusa, Sibylline priestess of the Dromans, from being dragged to death by an ape-bat. In company -with Drorathusa and her companions, they go down into the bowels of the Earth to¬ ward the strange underground land of Drome, and penetrate a veritable Dante’s Inferno of ter¬ rible monsters—tree-octopi, loopmukes and gogrugrons.

CHAPTER 37

AS WE WERE PASSING UNDERNEATH

S OMETHING was following ns. And we were not dependent solely upon that mysterious sixth sense of mine for knowledge of that sinister fact, either. Sounds were heard. Sometimes it would be a low rustling, as though made by some body gliding through the foli¬ age. Sometimes it would be the snap¬ ping of a twig—behind us, off to the right, perhaps, or to the left; never in front of us. Alas, it grieves me to do so, but I am constrained by the love of truth, and by nothing else, to inform the admirers of that great scientist Mark Twain that twigs do snap when they are stepped upon. Yes, I wish that we could have had some of those obstreperous applauders of Mark’s absurd essay on Fenimore Cooper with us there in that Droman wood! There w r ere other sounds, too, one of them a thing that I could never describe—a faint humming, throbbing sound that seemed to chill the blood in our veins, so weird and frightful a thing that neither Rhodes nor I could even dream of an

678 This story began in W1

explanation. And it was in vain that we looked to our Dromans for one. They tried to explain, but their ex¬ planation was as mysterious as the fact itself.

Onward we pressed through that terrible place—that abode of baldheaded cats, tree-octopi and unknown monsters.

At last, and for the first time since we had entered the forest, a current of air touched our cheeks, stirred the foliage and the lovely tresses of the ladies. Soon the breeze, soft and gentle, was whispering and sighing among the tree-tops. A gloom per¬ vaded the place; the wmod became dark and awful—though through it the light-mist was still drifting, drifting in streams that swayed and shook and quivered. Rhodes and I thought we were going to have an¬ other eclipse. But we were wrong. It began to rain—if I may so call that subtile drizzle that came drift¬ ing down and, indeed, at times seemed to form in the air before our eyes. I thought that this would stop us, for soon everything w T as wet and dripping—dripping, dripping. But the Dromans pressed on steadily, grimly. Soon every one of us was wet to the skin.

An hour or so passed, and then the drizzle ceased and the gloom lifted.

Rhodes and I were discussing this strange phenomenon when abruptly he cried out and pointed.

“There!” said he, reaching for his revolver. “At last we have ocular proof that we are being followed!”

ED TALES (or January

DROME


Even as he spoke, that faint hum¬ ming, throbbing sound filled the air.

“Look there! See it, Bill?”

“I see it.”

What I saw was an agitation, slight but unmistakable, in the thick¬ et from which we had emerged but a few moments before. Something was moving there—gliding through the dense undergrowth.

I jerked out my revolver. Rhodes had already drawn his.

“Might as well try a shot,” said he, “for it won’t show itself.”

We fired almost simultaneously. There was a smothered crash in the thicket, as though some heavy body had given a powerful lurch sideways. The throbbing of that mysterious, dreadful sound grew faster, louder; the" agitated foliage began to shake and quiver violently; and then of a sudden sound and agitation were stilled.

“We got it, Bill!” cried Milton, starting toward the spot.

“For God’s sake,” I called after him, “don’t go over there! Let’s get out of this. It may not be dead, and—and we have no idea what the thing is.”

“We’ll find that out.”

I suppose that I should have been going along after him the next mo¬ ment, but Drorathusa sprang for¬ ward with a cry of horror, began tug¬ ging at his sleeve and begging him to come back. So earnest was her manner, so great the horror shown by this woman usually so self-con¬ tained and emotionless, Rhodes gave in, though with great apparent re¬ luctance. A few moments, and we were moving away from the spot.

This Rhodes has always regretted, for to this day we do not know for certain what that thing was which followed us for so long. I have re¬ gretted it more than once myself; but I confess that I had no regrets at the time.

I say we do not know for certain;

we do know what Drorathusa and the others thought that it was; but that is a creature so horrible that it must (at any rate, such is the belief of Rhodes and myself) be placed amongst Chimeras, Hydras and such fabled monsters.

A t length, after a long and fatigu¬ ing march, we reached the spot where the river goes plunging over a tremendous precipice. The falls are perpendicular, their height at least half a thousand feet. It was neces¬ sary to move off to the right for a considerable distance to find a way of descent. The bottom reached, we headed for the stream. There we found the boat which .the Dromans 'had left in their outward journey, and beside it was a second and small¬ er one.

This strange craft was something of a mystery to our Hypogeans; but Drorathusa found a message, traced on the inner surface of a piece of bark, and that seemed to clarify the matter somewhat. Drorathusa held up three fingers; three men had come in that boat. And one of them, she told us, must have been the man whose body we had found hanging in the tentacle of the octopus. What had become of the victim’s compan¬ ions? Why had the trio come into a place so dreadful? Well, why had we?

Our journey for this day was al¬ ready a long one, but we did not halt in that spot. We got into the boat and went floating down the stream, to get away from the thun¬ der of the falling waters.

One thing, by the way, that from the very beginning had intrigued Rhodes and me not a little was the relationship subsisting amongst our Dromans. It had at first been my be¬ lief (though never that of Rhodes) that Drorathusa was the wife of Narkus. Ere long, however, it had become clear to me that wife she was


not. But what was she? His daugh¬ ter, Rhodes had said. And daughter I had at length decided, and still be¬ lieved, that she was. In short, we put the relationship as follows, and I may as well say at once that the future was to place its O.. K. upon this bit of Sherlock-Holmesing of ours: Narkus was the father of all pur Dromans except one, Siris, and to her he was father-in-law.

This little mystery cleared up—at any rate, to our satisfaction—we tackled another, which was this: what was Drorathusa? I think it has been made sufficiently obvious that she was no ordinary woman. -But what was she? The only answer that Rhodes and I had been able to find was that Drorathusa was indeed a Sibyl, a priestess or something of the kind. And again I may as well say at once that we were right.

But why had they set out on a journey so strange, so hazardous and so fearful—through the land of the tree-octopi and snakelike cats, through that horrible, unearthly fungoid forest, and up and up, up into the caves of utter blackness, across that frightful chasm, up to Tamahnowis Rocks, into the blaze of the sunshine, out onto the snow and ice on Rainier?

It was as though we suddenly had entered a fairyland, so wonderful was this gliding along on the placid bosom of the river when contrasted with the fatigues, dangers and hor¬ rors through which we had passed. There was nothing to do but steer the boat, keep her out in the stream; and so hours, the whole day long was passed in the languorous luxury of resting, in watching the strange trop¬ ical trees glide past and in making such progress as we were able in ac¬ quiring a knowledge of the Droman language. We found the ladies much better teachers than Thumbra and Narkus. In fact, there was simply no comparison. Why they should have

proven so immeasurably superior in this respect to the representatives of the brainy sex, I do not presume to explain. I merely record a fact; its explanation I leave to those who know more about science than I do.

For two days we glided through that lovely land, whose loveliness was a mask, so to speak, and but made the place the more terrible.

Late in the afternoon of this sec¬ ond day—how strange these words seem! But what others can I use? Late in the afternoon of this second day, we entered a swamp. The cur¬ rent became sluggish, our drift even more so, and right glad were we to put out the oars—of which, though, there were only two pairs—and send her along, for that was not a plaqe in which any sane man would want to linger. Besides the oars, however, there were several paddles, and we sent the boat at a good clip through the dark and sullen waters.

Weird masses of moss and weirder filaments hung from the great branches, which at times met over the stream.

We were passing underneath one of these gnarled and bearded arches when there came a piercing shriek from Delphis, accompanied rather than followed by a cry from Drora¬ thusa of “Loopmuke!”

I dropped the oars and reached for my revolver, turned and saw Nar¬ kus, standing in the bow, whip out his sword and slash savagely at the winged monster as it came driving down upon him.

CHAPTER 38

SOMETHING BESIDES * MADNESS

'T'here was a shock. The boat, I thought, was surely going over. Came a heavy plunge, and she right¬ ed, though sluggishly, for water had come pouring over the side in galDROME


Ions. Narkus had vanished. The demon was struggling madly on the surface, one of its great wings almost shorn clean from the body. An in¬ stant, and the head of Narkus was seen emerging. Almost at that very second, Rhodes fired at the ape-bat; a convulsive shudder passed through the hideous body, which slowly sank and disappeared. Narkus showed the most admirable coolness. He did not dash at the side of the boat, as nine men out of ten would have done, but swam quietly to the stem, where he was drawn inboard without shipping a spoonful of water—unhurt but minus his sword.

Two hours afterward, we reached firm ground, which soon became high and rocky. The vegetation there was sparse and dwarfish, and the place had a look indescribably wild and forbidding. Then at last we came to the end of the cavern itself. Yes, there before us, beetling up for hun¬ dreds of feet, up to the very roof, rose the rocky wall—into a cleft in which the river slowly and silently went gliding, like some monstrous serpent.

We passed the night in that spot and in the morning entered the cleft, which, in my troubled imagination, seemed to open wider to receive us.

Oh, what a strange, dreadful place was that in which we now found our¬ selves ! One thought of lost souls and nameless things. Ere long there was no perceptible current, and so out came the oars again. The place was a perfect labyrinth—a place of gloom and at times of absolute darkness. We were no less than three whole days in that awful maze of rock and water; but it was to emerge into a landscape beautiful beyond all de¬ scription.

The region was a wilderness, but soon—the day after that in which we issued from the labyrinth, in fact— we sighted our first habitation of man in this world of Drome. The next

day we reached a village, where we passed the night. We were muck struck by the deep respect with which Drorathusa was received. As for our own reception—well, that gave us something to think about..

Not that there was any sign of menace. It was the looks, the very mien of those Hypogeans that puz¬ zled and worried Rhodes and my¬ self. That Drorathusa endeavored to allay the suspicion or dread (or whatever it was) in the minds of the people was as clear to us as if we had understood every word spoken. The manner, however, in which they received her address but enhanced our uneasiness. No voice was raised in dissent to what she said; but there was no blinking the fact that there was no acquies¬ cence whatever in what she urged so earnestly.

“What on earth, Milton,” I asked, “does it mean?”

“Ask me something I can tell you, Bill,” was Rhodes’ consoling answer. “You know, when we came in sight of that first Droman habitation, I thought, that now our troubles were over.”

“So did I.”

“But we Were wrong, Bill; we were wrong. It is a queer business, and goodness only knows what it means.”

“It means trouble,” I told him.

And the very ’ next day showed that I was right.

We embarked at an early hour the following morning and in another and larger boat. It had a high orna¬ mented prow and was indeed a lovely little craft. This day’s voyage brought us to the City of Lellolando. It has a population of about fifteen thousand, and there Rhodes and I had our first sight of the beautiful Droman architecture—as displayed, that is, in the public buildings, for the dwellings are in no wise remark¬ able. These public buildings are net many, of course, in a place so small,


but their beauty filled us with amaze¬ ment.

Incomparably the most wonderful is the temple, builded upon the sum¬ mit of a great rounded rock in al¬ most the very center of the city. It was as though we had been trans¬ ported back to “the glory that was Greece.” Yes, it is my belief, and the belief of Rhodes also, that this temple would not have suffered could it by some miracle have been placed beside the celebrated temple of Diana at Ephesus. Buildings more won¬ derful than this we were to see, the grandest of all the great temple in Nomawnla Prendella, the Golden City, which is the capital of Drome; but I do not think that anything we saw afterward struck us with great¬ er wonder and amazement.

“Some Chersiphron,” said Rhodes, “must have wandered from Drome and finally made his way up into ancient Greece and taught the secrets of his art there. It is indeed a mar¬ vel that the art of the ancient Hel¬ lenes and this of Drome are so very similar. And yet they must have been autochthonous.

“But,” he added, “I wonder what they worship in that Splendid place. Some horrible pantheon, perhaps.”

“Let us,” said I, “give them the benefit of the doubt. For all we know to the contrary, these Dromans may be true monotheists.”

And this, I rejoice to say, the Dromans are—though, I regret to subjoin, there are some very absurd things in their religion, things dark and even things terrible.

But I anticipate in this, for it was just after we landed that it hap¬ pened.

We had started up one of the principal streets, on our way to the house of a high functionary—though, of course, Rhodes and I had no idea whither we were bound. On each side the street was a solid mass of humanity—many of the young peo¬

ple, by the way, having hair as white as snow, like that of our Delphis. Of a sudden a man, lean of visage and with eyes that glowed like red coals, broke through the guards (a halfdozen or so were marching along on either side of our little procession) and slashed savagely at the face of Rhodes with a great curved dagger. Rhodes sprang aside, almost thrust¬ ing me onto my knees, and the next instant he dealt the man a blow with his alpenstock. The blow, however, was a slanting one, ineffectual. With a scream, the fellow sprang again, his terrible knife upraised; but the guards threw themselves upon him, and he was dragged off, struggling and screaming like a maniac.

Of a truth, Rhodes had had a nar¬ row escape. And what did it mean?

“It must have been the act of a madman,” I said.

“It might have been,” was Mil¬ ton’s answer. “But unless I am greatly mistaken, there was some¬ thing besides madness back of it.”

CHAPTER 39 THE GOLDEN CITY

O ur stay in that place was marred by no other untoward incident; but right glad was I when, on the following morning, we were in our boat and going down the stream once more.

“We ought to be safe out here,” I remarked at last.

“I don’t know about that, Bill,” smiled Milton. “The stream is not a wide one, certainly, and those bush¬ es and trees that line the bank offer —look at that!”

But a hundred feet or so before us, a boat was gliding out from the con¬ cealment of a mass of foliage. There were three men in it, and the looks which they fixed upon us were lower¬ ing and sinister.

DROME

“Look at that fellow!” said Rhodes, drawing his revolver. “If that isn’t the chap who broke through with the amicable intention of carv¬ ing me, all I have to say is that it is his twin brother.”

This man was thin almost to emaciation, but his companions were burly fellows, every lineament of them bespeaking the ruffian.

They held their craft stationary or nearly so. In a few moments, there¬ fore, we were drawing near to them. Drorathusa had arisen, and she spoke to the occupants of the strange boat in a rather sharp, imperious man¬ ner. Her presence, or her words, seemed to awe them; and I was thanking our lucky stars that, after all, there was not going to be any trouble, when of a sudden, just as the drift of our boat brought Rhodes and me alongside, their bridled pas¬ sions burst forth in a storm of snarls, cries and fierce gestures of menace. There was a moment when I thought that they were actually going to at¬ tempt to board us. But they then drew off, though there was no diminution in that storm of abuse, execrations and threats that was hurled upon us. All three were armed, but no motion toward their weapons was made. The. reason for that, I suppose, was the sight of Narkus and Thumbra standing there each with an arrow to the string. Certainly the fellows did not in any way fear our weapons.

Some minutes passed, during which the two boats continued to drift side by side and that hideous clamor filled the air. At last, in an attempt to put an end to it, Rhodes raised his re¬ volver and took careful aim. Drora¬ thusa gave a cry and then addressed some fierce words to the trio. In all likelihood, she did not know what Rhodes was going to do. He fired. As he was standing and as but a few yards separated the boats, the bullet, which struck just above the water¬

line, went out through the bottom. The change was magical. You should have seen those fellows! "Whether it was the report of the weapon or whether it was that hole through which the water came spouting in, I do not know; but the taming of those wild men was swift and com¬ plete. As soon as they had recovered their wits, round flew the bow of their boat and away they went to¬ ward the shore. Our Dromans burst into laughter, even Drorathusa. And that was the last that we saw of those three fanatics.

But why had they done it ? Where¬ fore were Rhodes and I the objects of a hatred so fierce and insensate ?

Nor were we permitted to forget that fact. Intelligence of our arrival had spread almost as quickly as

though it had been broadcast by radio, and along the banks the peo¬ ple were waiting, in twos and threes, in scores and in hundreds, to see the men from the mysterious and fear¬ ful World above—harbingers, in

their minds, of calamities and name¬ less things. Goodness only knows

how many fists were shaken at

Rhodes and me during the day, how many were the maledictions that they hurled upon us. Happily, however, there was no act of hostility.

“You know, Bill,” Milton smiled, “I am beginning to wish that we were back there among those gogrugrons and tree-octopuses.”

This day’s voyage brought us to the City of Dranocrad. There a change was made that certainly did not displease me—from our little craft to none other than one of the queen’s own, a long beautiful vessel with oarsmen and guards.

The next day we passed a large tributary flowing in from our left from out a yawning cavern there. This was by no means, however, the first cave we had seen entering the main one. As one moves through some valley in the mountains, smaller


ones are seen coming in on either hand; and so it was in this great cavern of Drome, save that the val¬ leys were caves.. In that place, the great cavern itself has a width of two miles or more, and it is four or five thousand feet up to the vaulted roof.

“One wonders,” said I, “why the roof doesn’t cave in.”

“Pooh, Bill!” said Rhodes. “One doesn’t marvel that natural bridges don’t collapse or that the roof of the Mammoth Cave doesn’t come crash¬ ing down.”

npHE two days succeeding this -*• brought us into the very heart of Drome, and on the third we reached the Golden City itself.

This, the capital of the Droman na¬ tion, is situated at the lower end of a lake, a most picturesque sheet of water some fifteen miles in length. Where the river flows into it and for a distance of about a league down, the lake extends from one wall of the great cavern clean to the other. The walls go straight down and to what depth no man knows.

It was about midaftemoon when our boat, followed by a fleet of small¬ er craft, glided out onto this lovely expanse of water. At a point about half-way down the lake, we had our first view of the Golden City. I say view, but it was in reality little more than a glimpse that we ob¬ tained. For, almost at that very moment, a dense gloom fell upon water and landscape. Fierce and dreadful were the fliekerings along the roof a mile or more above us. So sudden and awful was the change that even the Dromans seemed as¬ tonished. There was a blinding flash overhead, and then utter blackness everywhere.

Rhodes and I flashed on our lights. For a time the Dromans waited, as though expecting the light to come at any moment; but it did not come.

Along the shore on either side and in the distant city, lights were gleaming out. A sudden voice came, mystic and wonderful; Rhodes and I turned, and there was Drorathusa standing with arms extended upward in invo¬ cation, as we had seen her in that first eclipse. Minutes passed. But the light did not come. At last the oars were put in motion again. Dark and agitated, however, were the looks of the Dromans, and more than one pair of eyes fixed themselves on Rhodes and me in a manner that plainly marked us as objects of some superstitious dread—if, indeed, it was not something worse.

Steadily, however, our boat glided forward through the black and awful scene.

“What is that?” I at length asked. “Can it be a floating palace?”

“A palace it must be,” Rhodes answered, “but not a floating one. See that low blaek mass under it; that is an island.”

At this moment Drorathusa moved to our side, and, indicating the great building in question, the windows of which were a perfect blaze of light, she said: “Lathendra Lepraylya.”

Her eyes lingered on Rhodes’ face, and her look, I saw, was somber and troubled.

So that was the queen’s palace? Soon we would be in the presence of this Lathendra (Queen) Lepraylya. What manner of woman was this sovereign of the Dromans? What awaited us there ?

I remembered that look of Drora¬ thusa’s, and I confess that my thoughts were soon troubled and somber.

CHAPTER 40 BEFORE LEPRAYLYA /^vne by one, in twos and threes ^ and then in a body, the small craft had dropped behind, and now we were alone on the black waters.

DROME


“It must have been the eclipse,” said Rhodes. “It is plain, Bill, that there is something about this dark¬ ness that is mysterious and awful to the Dromans. It must be in some way a most extraordinary eclipse.”

There was something awful—some¬ thing more awful than we thought. And what troubled me the most was this: they seemed to think that we men from the world above had some¬ thing to do -with this dread darkness —already one of far longer duration than any eclipse any living Droman had ever known. Indeed, none such had been recorded for what we would call centuries, and the last had been the harbinger of the most fearful calamities.

We knew full well that some super¬ stition was pointing a fell finger in our direction; but through the mind of neither flickered the thought that this eclipse might, so to speak, be metamorphosed into a death-charge against us.

As we were drawing in to the pal¬ ace, a heavy voice eame across the water. On the instant the rowers rested on their oars. Our command¬ er answered the hail, the heavy voice came again, whereupon the oars were dipped and our craft glided in to¬ ward the landing place.

Like a great lovely water-bird, our boat swung in to the landing place, where she was at once made fast.

And then a strange thing hap¬ pened.

Rhodes and I stepped from the boat together. Since the light had gone out in that fierce and terrible flash, not the faintest glimmer had shone overhead—anywhere. But, at that very instant in which we set foot on the island, there came a flash wrathful and awful.

For a few seconds the palace, the water, the city, the distant walls of rock stood out in bold relief, as

though in the glare of leprous fire. Then utter darkness again. It was like (and yet very unlike, too) a lightning flash; but no thunder roared, not the faintest sound was heard. Again that leprous- light, and this time cries broke out—cries that fear and horror wrung from the Dromans. It was, indeed, an awful moment and an awful scene.

“It looks,” said Rhodes, “as though the world is coming to an end.”

“Certainly,” I told him, “it seems as though the Dromans think so. Look at Drorathusa!”

Again she was standing with arms extended upward, and once more that strange, eery voice of hers came sounding. Everyone there, save Rhodes and myself, was kneeling. Little wonder that, as I looked upon that fearful scene, with the lep¬ rous light flashing and quivering through the darkness, I thought it must all be a dream.

The flashes became more frequent.. The light began to turn opalescent and to shoot and quiver and shake along the roof. Then of a sudden the eclipse—what other word is there to use?—had passed and all was bright once more.

We at once quitted the landing place, ascended a short flight of steps, passed through a most beautiful court and then, having ascended more steps, entered the palace itself.

/“Yun little party was conducted ^ straight to the throne-room. And straight down the great central aisle we went and stood at last before the queen herself.

There is nothing, as we then saw, servile, debasing in Droman court ceremonial. The meanest Droman, indeed, would never dream of kneel¬ ing before his queen. A Droman kneels to no man or woman, but to



God only. The sovereign does not owe her queendom to birth; but to merit, or to that which the Dromans deem as such. She is chosen, and she is chosen queen for life. I say she, and I mean she. The Salic law ex¬ cluded a woman from the throne of France; the Salic law of Drome ex¬ cludes the man—or, as the Dromans are wont to put it, “no man may be queen”—a proposition that even the most Socratical Droman philosopher has never been known to dispute!

As to the choosing of the Droman sovereign, I should perhaps explain that not everyone has a voice in this. Beggars, prodigals, sociophagites, dunces, nincompoops, fuddle-caps, half-wits, no-wit-at-alls, sharpers, crooks, bunko-men, paupers, thieves, robbers, highwaymen, burglars, mad¬ men and murderers, and some others, are all (I know that this is perfectly incredible and awful, but I solemnly assure you that it is a fact) inter¬ dicted the ballot.

Alas, it grieves me more than I could ever express to record so sad an instance of benightment in a people in so many ways so truly enlightened and broad-minded. But I take pride in saying that (when I had attained to something like a real knowledge of the Droman tongue) I described to Lepraylya herself, at the very first opportunity and in the most glowing and eulogistical language at my com¬ mand, how beautifully we did these things in the world above.

I had (yes, I confess it) flattered myself that I would thus be instru¬ mental in bringing about a great re¬ form, in righting a cruel injustice. Vain vision—vain, alluring dream! As I went on with my panegyric, I saw wonder and amazement gather¬ ing in the beautiful eyes of Leprayl¬ ya. When I had finished, she sat for some moments like one dumfounded. And, when at last she spoke, it

was, as ©Id Rabelais has it, as though her tongue was walking on crutches. What she said was: “My Lord Bill Carter!”

And again after a pause: “My Lord Bill Carter!

“But, then,” she added, “it must be an allegory. I confess, however, that the meaning, to my poor intel¬ lect at any rate, is involved in the deepest obscurity. Yes, allegory it must be. Surely this w’orld you have described to me exists only in the imagination—is an imaginary world inhabited by imaginary" sane people that are in reality lunatics.”

But this is anticipating.

There we stood before the Queen of Drome.

And what a vision of loveliness was that upon which we stood gaz¬ ing ! Strange, too, was the beauty of Lathendra Lepraylya, what with her snow-white hair. (Her age I put at about thirty.) The eyes, large and lustrous, were of the lighest gray, the pallid color enhancing the weird loveliness of her. Her dress was of the palest blue; on her brow, in a be jeweled golden diadem, was a large brilliant of pale green, flashing when she moved her look with pris¬ matic hues and fires.

But this woman before whom we stood was no mere beauty. That one saw at the first glance. Wonderful, splendid, one felt, was the mind of her, the soul of Lathendra Lepraylya. And not only that, but it was as though there was something uncanny in those pale gray eyes when she turned them to mine. That look of Leprayfya seemed to go right into my very brain, search out its thoughts and its secret places.

At the time it seemed long, but I suppose that no more than a couple of seconds had passed before she had turned her eyes to Milton Rhodes, upon whom they seemed to linger.

DROME


Her snowy face was cold, impas¬ sive. Even when she slightly raised her right hand to us in salutation, not the slightest change was percep¬ tible upon it.

The next moment, however, there was a change—when she addressed Drorathusa. For each of the others Lepraylya had a kind word, and then we all moved back a few steps to the seats which had been reserved for us —all save Drorathusa. She, we at once perceived, was about to give an account of the journey up to the mysterious, the awful world above. There was not a vacant seat in all that great room, save one—that for -Drorathusa. This was to the left of the throne, as one faces it, together with a dozen or so others, all occu¬ pied by persons whom I at once, and rightly, set down as priests and priestesses.

Of this small group (small but most powerful) every member save one was dressed in a robe of snowy white. As for the individual in question, his robe was of the deepest purple, and he had round his head a deep-blue fillet, in which was set a large gem, a diamond, as we after¬ ward learned, of a red so strange and somber that one could not help thinking of blood and weird, dread¬ ful things. We thought that this personage was the high priest, and in this we were not mistaken. He was about sixty years of age, lean to emaciation and with the cold, hard look of the fanatic in his eyes and, indeed, in his every lineament. His face, smooth-shaven, as is the Droman custom, was like that of some cruel bird of prey. Coldly had he received, and returned, the salutation of Drorathusa, and dark with malevo¬ lence had been the look which he had fixed upon Rhodes and me.

There could not be the slightest doubt that this human raptor pur¬ posed to rend us beak and talon.

CHAPTER 41 HE STRIKES

D rorathusa began her story.

Lepraylya leaned forward, rest¬ ed her chin on her left hand and listened with the most careful atten¬ tion. So still were the listeners that, as the saying has it, you could, any¬ where in that great hall, have heard a pin drop.

At times, so expressive were her gestures, Rhodes and I had no diffi¬ culty whatever in following Drora¬ thusa; but only at times. I have, however, had access to a transcript of the stenographic record of her story (the Dromans, despite the re¬ markable polysyllabic character of their language, have most excellent tachygraphers) and wish that space would permit inclusion of it here.

When Drorathusa had finished, the queen (who had several times inter¬ rupted with some interrogation) put a number of questions. With two or three exceptions, the answers given by our Sibyl seemed to be satisfac¬ tory. But those exceptions gave us something to think about. It was obvious that the queen was troubled not a little by those answers; and she was not, I believed, a woman who would lightly suffer the mask to re¬ veal her thoughts or her feelings.

When the queen had done, came the turn of that high priest, whose name was Brendaldoombro. Up he rose and addressed a few words to Lathendra Lepraylya. Her answer was laconic, accompanied by an as¬ senting motion of her right hand. For a few seconds her look rested upon Rhodes and me, and it was as though across those strange, won¬ drous pale eyes of hers a shadow had fallen.

As for the high priest, he had in¬ stantly, and with a fierceness that he could not bridle, turned to Drora¬ thusa.


How Rhodes and I, as we sat there, wished that we could understand the words being spoken!

“Always, O Drorathusa, ’ ’ said Brendaldoombro, “has your spirit been strange and wayward. Always have you been a seeker after that which is dark and mysterious. And, of a truth, dark and mysterious is the evil which you have now brought upon Drome.

“Never content with what it is given us to know! Always seeking the obscure! Sometimes, I fear, even that which is forbidden!”

At those words the eyes of Drora¬ thusa flashed, but she made no an¬ swer.

“Cursed was that hour—cursed, I say, be that peeking and searching and peering that discovered it to your eyes, that record of those who, led on by the powers of the Evil One, ventured up into the caves of dark¬ ness and at last up into the world above itself—a world, as our holy writings tell us, of fearful and name¬ less things, of demons who, to "achieve their purpose”—here he fixed his vulture eye upon Milton and me— “assume the shapes of men.

“But you must needs find that record, that writing which never should have been written. And you must needs turn a deaf ear to our words of counsel and admonition. You must needs beg and beseech and implore our permission to go yourself up into those fearful places and there see with your own eyes whether that in the writing was true or false. And we, alas, in an evil hour and one of weakness—yes, we did yield to your importunities and your wicked interpretation of our sacred writings and suffer you to go forth.”

It seems, however, that just the opposite was the truth—that Bren¬ daldoombro, fearing the growing popularity and power of this extra¬ ordinary woman, had been only too

glad to see her start for the caverns of darkness, from the black mysteries of which he, of course, had hoped that neither she nor a single one of her companions would ever return.

“Yes, evil was the hour in which you went forth, 0 Drorathusa the Wayward One. And evil is this in which we see these demons in the shapes of men sitting in our very midst, before the very throne of our queen. Already has God shown His anger, shown it in this darkness which has sent fear to the stoutest heart—this darkness the like of which no living man has ever known in Drome.

“Nor,” he went on, his voice ris¬ ing, “will the divine wrath be soft¬ ened so long as we, undutiful chil¬ dren that we are, suffer them to live —these devils that have come amongst us in the forms of men! Death!” His voice rose until the hall rang with the fierce tones. “Death to them, I say! Let death be swift and sure! And thus will Drome be spared sorrows, blood and miseries that, else, will wring the heart of the babe new-born and cause it to rise up and fearfully curse father and mother for bringing it in¬ to a world of such madness and wo!”

The effect of this impassioned and fiendish outburst was instantaneous and fearful. Something that was like a groan, a growl and a roar filled that great room. One who has never heard it could never believe that so fearful a sound could come from human throats. The Dromans sprang to their feet—not men and women now, but metamorphosed by the cunning and diablerie of Brendaldoombro into veritable fiends.

“We’re in for it, Bill!” cried Milton, springing to his feet and whip¬ ping out his revolver.

I sprang to his side, and we faced them.

Drorathusa, with a fierce cry, threw herself between us and the crowd.

DROME


We were moving slowly backward, back toward the throne. The voice of our Sibyl rang out clear and full. A moment or two, and it was evident that her words were quieting the mad passions of the mob—for mob, at that moment, it certainly was, though composed of the elite of the Droman world. Then of a sudden, full, clear, ringing and aquiver with wrath and suppressed passion, came the voice of Lathendra Lepraylya. Oh, what a vision of fierce loveliness was she as she stood there!

Brendaldoombro had come within a hair’s-breadth of achieving his dia¬ bolical purpose. And a most fearful vision of thwarted evil was he at that moment. He knew his auditors, though, and he knew his power. Again he raised his impassioned voice. Lepraylya, howevei*, turned upon him fiercely.

“Peace!” she cried. “I bid you, peace—yes, even you, O Brendal¬ doombro, High Priest of Drome though you are!

“What! You would still make of this room a shambles, stain the very throne of your queen with human blood?

“Ho, guard!” said she, turning. “Guard, ho!”

T r r is my belief that some cool-head- * ed fellow had bethought himself of the guard before even the queen. For it was only a moment or two be¬ fore a score or so of armed men had entered the room, and taken a posi¬ tion, in the form of a semicircle, be¬ fore the throne.

There, above those grim men, rose the blue figure of the queen, her eyes blazing like that great jewel on her brow. Those eyes she. fixed upon Brendaldoombro, and I actually thought that the old raptor quailed a little under that look of outraged majesty. If this was indeed so, ’twas for an instant only. His look, one of

baffled fury, then became fierce and defiant.

“So!” said Lathendra Lepraylya. ‘ ‘ What madness is this that I see What blood-howl is this that I hear ? No woman or man in Drome may be deprived of liberty or life without fair trial; and yet you, yes, even you, O Brendaldoombro, are here striving to make a shambles of the very throne itself!”

She raised a hand and pointed to¬ ward us.

“If these men are indeed-”

“They are not men!” the old vil¬ lain shouted. “They are demons who have taken the human shape, to attain here in Drome some fell pur¬ pose. Death, I say! Let death be swift and-”

“Peace, I say!” exclaimed Lepraylya, stamping her sandaled foot. “And, if these men from the world above are indeed but devils counterfeit, could we kill them, O Brendaldoombro? Since when can mere man kill a devil ? ’ ’

“When they are in human shape, he can! Death! Death to these-”

“One can kill their bodies only, even if he can do that.”

“What more,” demanded Brendal¬ doombro, “can one do to any woman or man? Death! Death to the de¬ mons ! ’ ’

“Their spirits would be but loosed from the body to move unseen in the air about us, and theyi could then the more easily achieve their nefarious designs. ’ ’

“They would be harmless then!” came the ready answer. “They are helpless save when in human form.”

“Since when?” queried Lepraylya, her eyes widening in surprize. “Since when did the angels of the Evil One become helpless unless in human shape?”

“You misapprehend, 0 Lathendra Lepraylya. These belong to a most peculiar order, a most rare species of



bad angel. And,” cried Brendaldoombro, “they are the worst devils of all! Death to them before it is too late! Let us- ”

“Have justice,” said Lepraylya, “as we hope for mercy and justice in that dread day when every human soul—even yours, O Brendaldoombro —must stand and be judged for the sins it has done in the flesh. No hu¬ man being may be condemned in Drome without trial; and I believe that Lord Milton and Lord Bill are true men, 0 Brendaldoombro, and no demons. And you would slay them, murder them, these the first men from the world above, as you would slay a gogrugron —if you did not fear it, 0 Brendaldoombro. Who knows what message they bring to us? Now they stand silent; but, when they will have learned our language, then we shall learn that which is now so dark and mysterious.”

“Dark and mysterious indeed!” cried the high priest. “Signs and portents have been given us, warning us of what is to follow if we harbor these demons amongst us. And I tell you, 0 Lathendra Lepraylya, you and all Drome shall rue this day if you heed not the dread warnings of the wrath divine. Darkness I see! Yes, I see darkness! And earthshocks! Calamities that will over¬ whelm all Drome and-”

“Silence!” Lepraylya commanded. “Silence, croaker of evil. One would almost think, 0 Brendaldoombro. that you know more about the angels of the Evil One than you do about God’s own. Hear now my word:

“When Lord Bill and Lord Milton can answer the charge that they are demons masquerading in the shapes of men, then, 0 Brendaldoombro, and not before, shall they be brought to trial—if, indeed, you will prefer that charge against them, then.

“Such is my word to you, 0 Bren¬ daldoombro, and to you, ladies and lords all, and on the majesty of the

Droman law and of the dread law of God it stands!”

CHAPTER 42 DRORATHUSA

And so it was that we reached, there in the palace of the Dro¬ man queen, our journey’s end—cer¬ tainly a stranger journey than any I ever have heard of and one that ought to prove of even greater inter¬ est to science than to the world in general. If, however, what they tell of the region is true, an expedition to the mysterious land that the Dromans call Grawngrograr would make our fearful journey to Drome look like a promenade to fairyland.

But there our journey ended, and now it is that my story rapidly draws to a close.

Probably you will think that, here under the egis of Lathendra Le¬ praylya, we found ourselves in clo¬ ver. And, in a way, this was un¬ doubtedly so. We were given each a splendid suite of rooms, in the pal¬ ace itself, and our lives were as the lives of princes—save that the close guard always kept over us was a re¬ minder that there was such a per¬ sonage in the world as one Brendal¬ doombro. If it had not been for that vulture shadow, how wonderful those days would have been!

But that shadow was there, and it never lifted. And the worst of it was that everything was involved in the deepest mystery and gloom, what with our ignorance of the Droman language. Forsooth, however, had we been masters of that language, we could not have known the plots that were hatching in the dark skull of Brendaldoombro.

As for the language, we were studying it with diligence and really had cause to be astonished at the rapidity of our progress. As to the high priest, crafty and consummate

DROME


villain though he was, that worthy found that Lathendra Lepraylya was quite his match and more than his match, as, indeed, was Drorathusa. Against the queen he was powerless to take any repressive measure; but the case was very different with re¬ gard to Drorathusa. He could act in this way, and he did.

She was sent to a distant, lonely, forsaken place on the very outskirts of the empire. According to all ac¬ counts, that spot is really a terrible one. Drorathusa was, in fact, in exile—though Brendaldoombro did not like to hear anyone call it that. But almost everybody did or regard¬ ed it as such, and there were mur¬ murs, not only amongst the Droman people, but even amongst those priestesses, and priests whom the old villain had counted upon to applaud his every word and act.

Nor did time still those murmurs. On the contrary, they grew louder, more persistent. Brendaldoombro was learning that it is one thing to send a person into exile and quite an¬ other to banish that person from the popular esteem. Nor did he stop at banishment; he had recourse to the assassin’s dagger and the arts of the poisoner. But, in all these attempts upon the life of Drorathusa, he was thwarted by the agents of the queen. Lepraylya knew her opponent, and she had at once taken measures to safeguard the life of the exiled priestess, who held as high a place in the esteem of her sovereign as she did in the hearts of the people.

How strange it seems to be writing of things like these in this the Twentieth Century, the Golden Ageof Science. But, as I believe I have already remarked, Science hasn’t dis¬ covered everything yet. This is a stranger, a more wonderful, a more mysterious old globe than even Sci¬ ence herself dreams it to be.

When our acquisition of the lan¬ guage became a real one, we began to

learn something of the science of Drome and to impart a knowledge of the wonderful science of our own world. Never shall I forget the amazement of the queen and those learned men of Drome when Rhodes brought his mathematics into play. Problems that only a Droman Archi¬ medes could solve, and that only after much labor (what with their awful notation) Rhodes solved, presto— just like that! So unwieldy was the system of notation employed by these Hypogeans that not even their great¬ est mathematicians had been able to do more than roughly approximate pi.

When Rhodes proceeded to the solution of trigonometrical problems, their amazement knew no bounds. And when he explained to them that all they had to do to become masters of such problems was to discard their cumbersome notation and adopt the simple numerals used by ourselves— well, I do actually believe that that was the straw that broke the back of Brendaldoombro’s power! For (strange though it may seem to a world that is more interested in moonshine than it is in science) that brought over to our side every learn¬ ed man in Drome and a majority of the people themselves. Nor should I forget the priests and priestesses. Your average Droman is much inter¬ ested in all things of a scientific na¬ ture, and no one more so than the true priest or priestess—though there are, of course, some lamentable ex¬ ceptions.

Yes, clearly we were men and not demons, else never would we have brought such wonders as these to of¬ fer them as gifts to the Dromans. But old Brendaldoombro had his an¬ swer ready.

“Instead,” said he, “that proves they are not men; only devils could be such wizards!”

I have often wondered what dark thoughts would have passed through



that dark brain of his had he been there the day that Rhodes showed Lepraylya, all those learned men and all those grand lords and ladies (ladies and lords, a Droman would say) the marvels of a steam-engine. Yes, there the little thing was, only two feet or so high but perfect in all its parts, puffing away merrily, and puffing and puffing, and all those Dromans looking on in wonder and delight.

Even as we sat there, came word that Brendaldoombro was dead. He had died suddenly and painlessly just after placing his hand in bless¬ ing on the head of a little child.

Well, they gave him a magnificent funeral. Peace to his soul!

On the death of the Droman high priest (or priestess) a successor is chosen, in the great temple in the Golden City, by a synod composed of exactly five hundred, the majority of whom are usually priestesses. On the very first ballot, Drorathusa (who was already on her way back from her lonely place of exile) was chosen.

Priests and priestesses, I should perhaps remark, are free to marry, unless they have taken the vow of celibacy. This (voluntarily, of course) many of them do.. Drora¬ thusa, by the way, had not done so.

TITe had now been in Drome a lit-

* » tie over seven months. It was not very long afterward that Rhodes told me he was going to get mar¬ ried—to Lathendra Lepraylya her¬ self! The news, however, was not wholly unexpected. Well, not every man of us can marry a queen— though of queens there are plenty.

I take the following from my jour¬ nal for May the 10th:

“They were married today, about 10 o’clock, in the great temple; and a very grand wedding it was, too. Drorathusa herself spoke the words that made them man and wife, for

the queen of Drome can be married by the high priestess or priest only.

“Now, as she proceeded with the ceremony, which was a very long one, I thought that that pale face of Drorathusa’s grew paler still and that a distraught look was coming into her eyes. Then I told myself that 'twas only a fancy. But it was not fancy. For of a sudden her lip began to tremble, her voice faltered, the look in her eyes became wild and helpless—and she broke down.

“A moment or two, however, and that extraordinary woman had got control over herself again. She mo¬ tioned the attendant priestesses and priests aside; a wan smile touched her lips as she pressed a hand to her side and said: ‘It was my heart—but I am better now. ’

“She at once proceeded with the ceremony, voice and features under absolute control. Again she was Drorathusa the Sibylline.

“And so they were married. And may they live happy and happily ever after!’’

And then, after the great nuptial banquet in the palace, off went the happy pair in the queen’s barge for Leila Nuramanistherom, a lovely royal suite some thirty miles down the river; whilst I betook myself to the solitude of my rooms, there to ponder on the glad-sad lot of man, to hear over and over, and over again, those low tragic words: “It was my heart—but I am better now.” Sibylline, noble, poor Drorathusa!

CHAPTER 43 WE SEE THE STARS

'\T7hen facing the dangers, myster- ** ies, horrors (and other things) of our descent to this strange and wonderful subterranean land, how often I said to myself: “ If ever I get out of this, never again!” And I truly believed it at the time, though I

DROME


should have known better. I should have known—I did know that ad¬ venture and mystery have inex¬ plicable and most dreadful charms. Indeed, the more fearful the Un¬ known, the more eager a man (one who has heard the Siren song which adventure and mystery sing) is to penetrate to its secret places—unless, indeed, the charms of some Lepraylya or Drorathusa entwine them¬ selves about the heart. In my case, that can never be. There is a grave in the valley of the Snoqualmie, un¬ der the shadow of old Mount Si—but tears dim the page, and I can not write of that. Even Milton Rhodes does not know.

Here was I in the Golden City; here was everything, it would seem, that could conduce to contentment, to that peace of mind which is dearer than all. Yet I was restless and real¬ ly unhappy. And the Unknown was calling, calling and calling for me to come. To what? Perhaps to won¬ ders the like of which Science never has dreamed. Perhaps to horrors and mysteries from which the imag¬ ination of even a Dante or a Dore would shrink and flee in mad terror —things nameless, worse than a thousand deaths.

But I wanted to go. Yes, I would go. I would go into that fearful Land of Grawngrograr—discover its mysteries or perish in the attempt.

And I am going, too. That jour¬ ney has not been abandoned, only de¬ layed. It was like this.

I was drawing up, in my mind, tentative plans (my purpose was yet a secret) when one day Rhodes came in, and, after smiling in' somewhat enigmatic fashion for some moments, he suddenly asked: “I say, Bill, how would you like to see the stars, the sun again?”

“The sun? Milton, what do you mean?”

“That I am going back to the sur¬

face. I thought that you would want to go along.”

“What in the w-orld arc you going back for?”

“There are many things that we ought to have here—a book of loga¬ rithms, the best in the world, is one of them. We’ll get those things, or as many as we can, for it would be impossible to bring them all. We’ll wind up our sublunary affairs, and, hurrah, then back to Drome! What do you say to that, old tilUcum? : ’

“What does Lepraylya say?”

“At first she wouldn’t even hear of my going. But I have at last gained her consent. With our large party, there can not be any danger.”

I was not sure of that, but I kept those thoughts to myself.

“Of course, I want to go,” I told him. “Birt there is something that I don’t understand.”

“Which is what?”

“We can’t keep our great discov¬ ery a secret. And, as soon as the world has it, adventurers, spoilers, crooks and parasites will come swarming down that passage. We’ll loose upon our poor Dromans a horde of Pizarros.”

“Did I think for one single mo¬ ment that what you say, or anything like it, would follow, never one step would I take toward the sun. You say that we can not keep the discov¬ ery of Drome a secret; w r c can, and we will—until such time as it will not matter. We will come out onto the glacier in the night-time. Our way of egress—I suppose we’ll have to tunnel our way out through the ice, that there will not be any accom¬ modating crevasse there—will be most carefully concealed. No one will see us come out. No one will know of our journeys to and from the Tamahnowis Rocks, for they will be made under the cover of darkness. No one will know.”

“Our long absence?” I queried. “This is the month of July—-thanks



to your chronometer-watch and your careful record, we know the very hour. Almost a whole year has gone by since that day we went forth up¬ on the mountain., How are we go¬ ing to explain that to the curious?”

‘‘Tut, tut!” smiled Milton. “If all oUr difficulties could be so easily solved as that!”

“I believe, however,” he went on, “that we ought to leave the world, our world, a record of the discovery. I will set down to the extent that time permits those things which, in my opinion, will interest the scientific world. As for the discovery itself, the journey and our adventures, yours, Bill, is the hand to record that.”

“A record?” I exclaimed. “Then why all this .secrecy, this moving un¬ der cover of darkness, if you are go¬ ing to broadcast the discovery of Drome to the whole world?”

“Because we will then have left that world and the way to this will have been blasted up and otherwise closed.”

“That,” I told him, “will never keep them out.”

“I think that it will. And, if any ever does find his way down, he’ll never return to the surface; he’ll spend the rest of his days here in Drome, even if he lives to be as old as Methuselah. Be sure you put that into the record! The Dromans are human, and so they are not quite saints. But their land is never go¬ ing to be infested with plunderers, dope-peddlers and bootleggers if I can prevent it, and I feel confident that I can.’

“This closing of the way will not mean complete isolation. At any rate, I hope that it will not. For I feel confident that ere very long the two worlds will communicate with each other by radio—yes, that each will even see, by means of television, the inhabitants and the marvels of the other.”

/~vne or two weird things befell us ^ during our return journey, but time presses and I can not pause to record them here. The party was composed of picked men, one of whom was Narkus. We had one ape-bat. This going up was a more difficult business, I want to tell you, than our going down had been. There was one consolation: we did not get lost.

Onward and upward we toiled, and at last, on the 28th of July, we reached the Tamahnowis Rocks.

This was about 10 o’clock in the morning. The way out was com¬ pletely blocked by the ice. Cool air, however, was flowing in through fis¬ sures and clefts in the walls and the roof of the tunnel. We waited until along toward midnight, for fear someone might be about—that some sound might reveal the secret of the rock.

It was about 11 o’clock when we began to dig our way out through the ice. The tunnel was not driven out into the glacier but up alongside the rock wall, ‘through the edge of the ice-stream. Hurrah! At last our passage was through! And, as old Dante has it:

“Thence issuing we again beheld the stars.”

[THE END]

“The hands floated, armless, toward his throat."

“T^T EVERTHELESS ’” deelared

I’VJ Alfred Meyers to himself ^1 with a certain tightening of the lips, “spirits do not return, much less materialize and lay their hands on peoples’ shoulders!”

He walked nervously down the broad front steps of the old brownstone building, turned, and started briskly toward the rumble of heavy traffic on the avenue. A tired clerk shuffling his way to the subway would have casually glanced at Al¬ fred Meyers and seen a pale, slim man of indefinite years whose gait held a hint of tense nervousness. But a keen-eyed physician brushing close by might have noticed a significant tinge of his eyeballs and a tiny tell¬ tale twitching of his mouth.

Alfred Meyers had been to his first materialization seance and it had stirred him a great deal more than anything had been able to do for a

long, long while. An extremely dis¬ turbing subject had been revived, a subject which Meyers thought he had succeeded in putting forever out of the range of his conscience— namely, his addiction to cocain. A vague, cloudlike figure which claimed to be his father had ap¬ peared, a figure whose handsA nervous tremor shook Alfred’s slim body. He quickened his pace and tried his best to put down the fresh and active memory of the dark¬ ened room he had so recently left. Time enough for such thoughts when he had reached his rooms and quiet¬ ed his quivering nerves.

He hunched his shoulders up and together as if he were facing a biting north wind. His steps lengthened until he was nearly running. Soon the face which had been merely pale and serious when he descended the steps of the brownstone building was


rapidly becoming a haggard ashen mask. Oh, if he could only hold up under the gnawing within until he reached the next street!

Eyes sunken and dull, lips twitch¬ ing uncontrollably, he stumbled up the steps of the apartment house to his rooms. Inside, he leaped for the drawer of his desk. With shaking, icy fingers he found his cigarette case, jerked the dummy tray of cig¬ arettes out and snatched one of the tiny waxed envelopes that were packed snugly beneath the false bot¬ tom. Shuddering with abject crav¬ ing, he clumsily tore open the envel¬ ope, tapped a pinch of fine white cocain out into the back of his hand and traced the powdery stuff into a little ridge with his forefinger. He leaned over in frantic eagerness and with a quick, spasmodic inhalation sniffed up every particle.

The psychological effect of the stuff was instant. Although his lips still twitched and his eyes rolled helplessly from side to side, he sank into a deep armchair and relaxed. His fingers closed over the cigarette case in a clawlike grip. He must never forget his cigarettes again, he told himself, especially when there was any likelihood of his encountering as unnerving a set of circumstances as that seance had been.

Bit by bit the color crept back into his cheeks and his facial muscles re¬ laxed. He smiled, lay comfortably back in his chair and chuckled. That seance had been amusing! In a lux¬ ury of blissful contentment he al¬ lowed himself to live over the epi¬ sode of the afternoon. He recalled the frame of mind he had been in— a secretly cynical attitude of investi¬ gation. Physically and mentally he had been in a state which was very nearly normal—that phase of several hours’ duration which comes to an addict after every trace of the effects of the drug has worn off,

but before the system has begun to call for more.

He had been met at the door of the brownstone house by a middleaged gentleman.

“Mr. Addison?”

“Yes, come in.”

Meyers looked at Mr. Addison closely. He was a man a trifle under medium height, with thin, silvergray hair. His face was that of a scholar—lined, delicate, sensitive, but behind it lurked the suggestion of tremendous nervous energy and a powerful personality. He was a man that seemed in a subtle way like a powerful spring of finest tempered steel, the vital part of some mighty, silent engine; a spring which seemed merely a quiet coil till one looked very closely and saw that it was a living thing, humming soundlessly under the weight of terrific withheld power. Mr. Addison’s voice was well modulated, his dress retiring, and his bearing one of absolute poise.

He showed Alfred into a highceilinged, old-fashioned, dark oak room and motioned him into a chair. The whole house seemed steeped in an atmosphere of calm silence. Mey¬ ers looked about him and felt a bit surprized. So far he had seen none of the tin trumpets, incense stands and Egyptian draperies that he had somehow always associated with spiritualism. The room was fur¬ nished a bit sparsely and severely, but with evident good taste.

“You are the Mr. Meyers who made the appointment by ’phone yesterday?”

“Yes. Is the—ah—seance held right in here?”

“Yes, Mr. Meyers . . . Miss Ad¬ dison, my daughter, will be down presently. She thinks we shall be able to get some very good material¬ izations this afternoon.”

‘ ‘ Your daughter is the—medium ? ’ ’

“Exactly. You understand, Mr. Meyers, that any rash action you

PHANTOM FINGERS


might possibly be tempted to make could very easily result in the death of my daughter. Materialization is an extremely serious affair, involv¬ ing the life-forces of the medium.”

Alfred Meyers started impercepti¬ bly and shot a disturbed look at the speaker. Rash actions had been pre¬ cisely what he was thinking of when Mr. Addison spoke. For the first time he noticed what compelling, piercing eyes the older man had.

Both turned as a girl entered the room. She was a frail little wisp of a thing, beautiful in the same way as a rare lily—waxlike, colorless, and yet palpitating with fragile life. She acknowledged Meyers with a faint smile, but turned away abrupt¬ ly as she felt his eyes travel up and down her figure appraisingly.

Mr. Addison was standing on a heavy chair fastening a black cur¬ tain across an empty corner of the room. Meyers stood waiting. The other stepped down and lifted the big chair easily to one side. Alfred could not help noticing Mr. Addi¬ son’s hands as they gripped the dark wood. They were very large hands, but so extremely well-proportioned that their size did not make them conspicuous. The fingers were long and immensely powerful. Meyers saw the cords stand out on the backs of Mr. Addison’s hands like great wires as he moved the chair.

A moment later Alfred himself cas¬ ually attempted to pull the same chair to one side and sit down. To his sur¬ prize he was unable to move it. He took a firm hold and pulled. It moved slightly. The chair was mas¬ sively built of solid mahogany and amazingly heavy. Meyers looked again at those huge fine hands of Mr. Addison’s with a feeling akin to awe.

The girl seated herself in the little curtained-off corner of the room. Mr. Addison carefully parted the curtain so that his daughter’s head

and shoulders were visible. She sat quietly, her body relaxed and her eyes closed.

As Mr. Addison pulled down the heavy window-blinds, Alfred stole stealthy, covetous glances at her pale face. The room suddenly became quite dark as the last blind came down. The face in the oval parting of the curtains dimmed to a white blur.

Meyers was seated in the center of the room facing the curtained cor¬ ner. Mr. Addison sat to his left and slightly in front of him. For per¬ haps a minute there was utter si¬ lence. Then the older man began to sing Nearer, My God, to Thee in a very low, soft voice. Alfred hummed an accompaniment, a rather irregu¬ lar and broken accompaniment, for it had been years since ho had heard that piece sung. It brought back disquieting memories . . .

The singing gradually grew softer and softer until it ceased entirely. Alfred’s eyes were becoming accus¬ tomed to the gloom and he again closely scrutinized the still form of the girl. Her face was now rigid and motionless. She looked unpleas¬ antly like a corpse. Meyers correct¬ ly guessed that she was in a trance.

Presently, between the curtains, next to the floor, was a slight move¬ ment. The agitation increased until an uneasy patch of white appeared. It wavered and shook like a cloud of thick, restless smoke. The thing grew steadily and rapidly till within two minutes of its first appearance it had assumed the vague outline of a tall, thin man, taller by far than the girl who was still perfectly visi¬ ble, lying unconscious in the chair.

After standing quietly a moment, the figure of the man glided slowly across the room. Alfred felt a curi¬ ous numbness creep over him as he recognized the features of his father. The materialized spirit stood close to him and spoke in a throaty whisWEIRD TALES

per. He said the things Alfred’s father would have said in life—hard, uncompromising things that made the young man cringe. As his father bent over him to deliver a parting sentence, Alfred felt a heavy hand laid on his shoulder. He started, then squirmed in his chair as the cold sweat trickled down his face. He had rather fancied himself talk¬ ing to some uncertain nebulosity, perhaps even a hoax; accordingly the realization that the hand he had just felt on his shoulder was of some definite substance came as quite a shock to him. As the figure slowly retreated toward the curtain, Meyers pulled himself together somewhat and looked very closely at the hands. The man’s body was a bit cloudlike and unreal—it might easily be an il¬ lusion or even a clever reflection— but those hands were as solid flesh and blood as his own! Very clear and well-defined they were, hanging loosely at the ends of the more in¬ distinct arms. While the form slow¬ ly dwindled and finally disappeared under the curtains, Meyers caught himself scrutinizing the massive, beautiful hands of Mr. Addison.

No sooner had the first figure been completely dissipated than another began to form. Timorously Alfred watched it grow, expand, and take on a settled outline as the other had done. At last it assumed the shape of a rather small man who walked with a slight limp toward the center of the floor. He halted and.pointed his finger at Meyers accusingly. Again the hands stood out more clearly than the rest of the form. Meyers thought that he could see the spirit’s lips moving, but he heard no sound. Addison reached back and plucked his sleeve.

“He keeps repeating the name of Kane—Roger Kane,” he whispered quickly; “his forces are rather weak. Do you recognize the name?”

Again the cold sweat burst out in

glassy beads on Meyers’ face. This was too much! Roger Kane was the name of a man he had run down and killed late one night on a lonely sub¬ urban street. When he had real¬ ized that the man was dead, he had let the body lie and fled. The papers had tyeen full of it for weeks—even to the extent of a sizable reward. And now this!

“No, oh God, no!” whispered Al¬ fred hoarsely; “tell him to go away. I never heard the name before! ’ ’

Mr. Addison’s deep gray eyes slowly and inexorably pierced the terrified drug addict through and through, till Meyers felt that he had dragged the guilty lie out and was dangling it in plain sight. The small man’s form slowly dwindled away, keeping his finger pointed straight at Alfred. The hands were last to go and for a moment they hung pal¬ pitating in the air independent of a body. Meyers covered his face with his hands, cowered down in his ( chair and made a little strangling 'noise. After a few minutes Mr. Addison went to the windows and raised the blinds, one by one, letting the late afternoon sunlight stream in across the somber room in welcome beams. A far-reaching shaft fell across the inert girl, and for a moment, his fears half forgotten, Alfred gloated on the sight of her with an unholy light in his eyes.

As he stood in the front hall for a moment awaiting Mr. Addison, his eyes, out of force of habit, traveled swiftly over the hall and adjoining room in a practised and appraising glance. He noted the bits of ex¬ pensive bric-a-brac, a silver vase on the mantel that was a real prize, and a painting on the far wall that might possibly be an original.

A nd now, in the privacy of his apartment, Alfred took another tiny waxed paper envelope from his cigarette case. Slowly and luxuriPHANTOM FINGERS

ously he sniffed every particle of the white powder. For a long time he lay back in his deep armchair, his fingers moving restlessly. By de¬ grees a dull glow began to show deep down in his pale eyes and from time to time his thin lips twitched them¬ selves into a crooked smile. He was thinking of the girl at the seance— Mr. Addison’s daughter—thinking of her flowerlike, helpless beauty as she lay limply back in the chair. And Mr. Addison’s hands—perfect, well-manicured, yet possessed of the strength of a gorilla. Queer! That daughter of his was a little beauty . . . and the picture hanging at

the far end of the front room—might be an original . . . yes, probably was an original and worth a small fortune if properly handled.

Under the influence of a double dose of cocain, Alfred’s mind was functioning rapidly and erratically. He thought of the fine furnishings in Mr. Addison’s house—a clever worker could make a worthwhile clean-up in that house. The silver vase on the mantel, a little handcarved ivory lamp and—why, the girl, too!—mustn’t overlook her. Oh no, she was better than any of the other loot. Meyers smiled more crookedly than before. He’d see more of that girl! Yes, sir! Pay a call on her soon—very soon. Why, even tonight was not too soon. The outline of her slim, weak figure danced before his eyes and his drugtwisted face lighted up.

As Alfred chuckled and smirked over the thought of the girl, a slight¬ ly disturbing thing kept creeping in. Mr. Addison intruded himself here and + here in the jumbled-up scenes which flitted through Meyers’ mind. First it was his face and reaching arms, then his arms from the elbow down and finally his hands alone, ex¬ tended; those great tapered fingers of steel opening and closing convul¬ sively. They intruded themselves

more and more; they grew to mon¬ strous size; the fine hairs on the back of the fingers seemed the size, and coarseness of heavy wire.

In the somewhat muddy state of mind induced by cocain, even the most harrowing thoughts do not seem distinctly unpleasant. Meyers sat bolt-upright on the edge of his chair and regarded the phantom hands of Mr. Addison with a grin. The hands fascinated him. They darted in at his throat, they lay quietly on the table for a moment, then waked into life and crawled slowly about like great sluggish spiders. Finally they came to rest on the floor by Alfred’s foot. Delib¬ erately he rose and stepped squarely upon one of them. His foot passed through and seemed imbedded in the vapory form of the hand. Meyers laughed, a dry, mirthless laugh, and leaped, both feet together, on the other one. For a minute or so he devoted himself to trying to destroy the eery things, then gave it up and fell to laughing at them. He stepped to his cigarette case, emptied an¬ other waxed envelope and snuffed it up. Then he stood over the hands and glared at them till the drug had taken full effect. The two things on the floor seemed to grow smaller and paler under his gaze till at last they vanished entirely.

Meyers laughed a very satisfied and high-pitched laugh. He stood before the mirror and straightened his tie. He’d tell Mr. Addison about this hand matter, he told himself, and he also wanted to make it clear that the name Roger Kane meant nothing at all to him. Knew too much, that Mr. Addison did! Have to have a good talk with him. Have a talk with the daughter, too. Might as well make it this evening. Yes, he’d go right now.

He pocketed his cigarette case, donned his hat, and walked briskly down the steps of his apartment



house. In the godlike state of ex¬ hilaration which is a later, fuller ef¬ fect of cocain, he covered the four long city blocks to the old brownstone house oblivious of the traffic, the twinkling lights and the jostling crowds. At the door of Mr. Addi¬ son’s house he rang the bell long and loudly. There was an interval of si¬ lence, broken only by the far-off rumble of the avenue. Again he rang. From back in the dark re¬ cesses of the old house came the sound of an opened door, footsteps, the click of an electric light switch. The knob turned and Mr. Addison, in dressing gown and slippers, stood in the doorway.

“Want to see you, Mr. Addison,” said Meyers gruffly, stepping past the elder man and into the hallway.

“About what?” queried Addison, closing the door and regarding his visitor intently.

Under the merciless gaze of Mr. Addison’s blazing gray eyes Meyers invented a falsehood quickly. “I would like to make you an offer on that silver vase you have,” he said. “I noticed it this afternoon.”

“That vase is not for sale,” re¬ turned the other.

“Understand, Mr. Addison, that I am a connoisseur of fine things and I am interested in your collection. That picture, for instance-”

“Mr. Meyers, my collection is com¬ posed entirely of family heirlooms which money can not buy. My daughter and I had retired for the night when you rang. I have noth¬ ing for sale and it is late. Good night!”

He stepped toward the door when a sudden movement on Alfred’s part caused him to turn. He leaped back and seized the descending wrist with a grip that bruised the very bone. Meyers made a little animal noise of pain and anger as his blackjack thudded on the floor. As if he were

a straw man, Addison jerked Alfred toward the door.

With the tightening of the vise¬ like grip on his right wrist, some¬ thing snapped in Meyers’ cocaininflamed brain. With his free hand he jerked a tiny, flat automatic from an armpit pocket, pressed it tight against Addison’s chest, and pulled the trigger.

The silencer-equipped little weap¬ on made virtually no report. The terrible grip on Meyers’ wrist con¬ tracted convulsively as the elder man stood swaying for a few moments. He drew Alfred down with him as he slipped soundlessly to the floor, stone-dead. Meyers struggled to a kneeling position and tore frantical¬ ly at the steely fingers about his wrist. Half sunken in the crushed flesh, their awful pressure shut off the circulation till Alfred’s hand was blue-black and cold as ice. One by one, using all his strength, he bent back the fingers as if escaping from a steel trap. When the death-grip of the last rapidly-cooling finger had been disengaged, Meyers rose to his feet a bit shakily, rubbing his bruised wrist.

For a long time he stood there over the body of his victim, trying to work some of the circulation back into his right hand. About his wrist there was a great purple hand im¬ print, the overlapping fingers stand¬ ing out as clearly as if they were painted on the pale skin.

T3resently Meyers began to fumble in his pocket with his left hand. He drew out his cigarette case and with a little maneuvering was able to take another dose of cocain. Un¬ der the continued influence of the drug the pupils of his eyes had di¬ lated enormously, seriously affecting his vision. He looked down at the body of the man he had just mur¬ dered, but the sight awoke not the

PHANTOM FINGERS


slightest response on his chalky, set face.

Weird and disconnected forms be¬ gan to race through his drug-riddled brain. Bright lights flashed before his eyes, discordant bells jangled in his ears, and the cords of his neck stood out tensely as he lurched to¬ ward the foot of the stairs to sup¬ port himself on the banister. Grad¬ ually a single thought drew apart from the rest—upstairs, somewhere, was the girl he had come to see. When the idea was firmly fixed in his mind, he made his way slowly up the long, winding staircase and stole cautiously down the darkened hall, one hand on the wall.

From a room to the right came the voice of Mr. Addison’s daughter. “Is that you, Father?” she called uneasily. Meyers made no answer, but turned into the room whence the voice had come. His fingers found the light switch, and with the flood of illumination which followed he saw the girl half raised in bed, the covers drawn up over her breast and her dark hair streaming down over her bare shoulders. For a moment he stood and leered, then turned and locked the door, depositing the key in his pocket. The girl did not move, but a deep-rooted horror glistened in her wide, dark eyes.

Meyers extended his arm and beckoned drunkenly. The girl shud¬ dered violently. Suddenly she spoke.

“You have killed my father!”

The drug-fiend nodded indifferent¬ ly and started across the floor to¬ ward her. She leaped from her bed and stood, back to the wall, panting with terror.

“Don’t touch me!” she said in a low husky voice; “if you touch meI’ll kill myself!”

Meyers staggered forward and crushed her to him. Bracing herself against the wall, the girl thrust him violently away. He reeled unsteadi¬

ly backward, tripped over a low stool and sprawled on the floor. The girl fell back into a chair by the side of her bed. The sheets, which she had been holding about her, by an accidental fling of her arm swept up, caught, and hung from the corner of the high bedstead, forming a long, sweeping drape before her.

As Meyers pulled himself up to a sitting position against the opposite wall, he saw the girl’s face quiver violently, then settle into the fixed expression he had noticed that after¬ noon while she was in the material¬ ization trance. Even as he looked, an angry, twisting, nebulous some¬ thing sprang out from beneath the draped sheets. It writhed like a cloud of hot vapor. It grew with a breath-taking rapidity, shaping itself in a few moments to the form of a man a trifle under medium height. The figure became more compact and more distinct; it quivered and shook as though under the influence of some mighty emotion. Two blazing, piercing gray eyes shone from the spirit’s face, while at the end of its extended arms, fingers clutching the air, were two huge, perfectly-formed, gorilla-strong human hands . . .

Cowering low against the wall, Al¬ fred Meyers watched the hands and the eyes advance on him. He could feel the withering gaze of the awful gray orbs boring into him. The lower part of the spirit’s body m seemed to grow more indistinct, as though concentrating all its solid matter in those terrible, inexorable hands. On they came, the fingers tense as bars of fine steel, eager to grasp and crush. . .

The burning eyes in the shadowy head were looking down on Meyers. The hands floated, armless, toward his throat. . . Not a muscle did

the drug-fiend move as the long, tapered fingers slipped eagerly around his throat. With a crushing, inhuman strength the two mighty



hands strangled Alfred Meyers, the fingers locking solidly around the back of his neck. Slowly his face took on a purplish cast, his eyes pro¬ truded glassily from their sockets. . .

Eyes . . . gray eyes . . . huge, clutching hands . . . about his throat . . . roaring in his ears . . . oblivion.

“ A nd neither is it possible for a dead man in the front hall to pass through a locked door upstairs and strangle another man to death, is it now?”

The detective was silent under the coroner’s crushing logic. ‘ ‘ But, ’ ’ he protested, ‘‘there were finger-marks on his throat,”

‘‘Yes, there were,” went on the big coroner in a puzzled tone which he immediately tried to cover up, “but nevertheless, this is an ex¬ tremely obvious case of over-indulg¬ ence in narcotics and as such it will be reported!”

Glaring defiantly at the detective, he closed his note-book with a de¬ cisive flip.

WEIRD STORY REPRINT

Young Goodman Brown

By NATHANIEL HAWTHORNE

Y OUNG Goodman Brown came forth at sunset into the street of Salem village; but put his head back, after crossing the thresh¬ old, to exchange a parting kiss with his young wife. And Faith, as the wife was aptly named, thrust her own pretty head into the street, let¬ ting the wind play with the pink ribbons of her cap while she called to Goodman Brown. .

“Dearest heart,” whispered she, softly and rather sadly, when her lips were close to his ear, “prithee put off your journey until sunrise and sleep in your own bed tonight. A lone woman is troubled with such dreams and such thoughts that she’s afeard of herself sometimes. Pray tarry with me this night, dear hus¬ band, of all nights in the year.”

“My love and my Faith,” replied young Goodman Brown, “of all nights in the year, this one night

must I tarry away from thee. My journey, as thou callest it, forth and back again, must needs be done ’twixt now and sunrise. What, my sweet, pretty wife, dost thou doubt me already, and we but three months married?”

‘ * Then God bless you! ’ ’ said Faith, with the pink ribbons; “and may you find all well when you come back.”

“Amen!” cried Goodman Brown. “Say thy prayers, dear Faith, and go to bed at dusk, and no harm will come to thee.”

So they parted; and the young man pursued his way until, being about to turn the corner by the meet¬ ing house, he looked back and saw the head of Faith still peeping after him with a melancholy air, in spite of her pink ribbons.

“Poor little Faith!” thought he, for his heart smote him. “What a

YOUNG GOODMAN BROWN

wretch am I to leave her on such an errand! She talks of dreams, too. Methought as she spoke there was trouble in her face, as if a dream had warned her what work is to be done tonight. But no, no; ’twould kill her to think it. Well, she’s a blessed angel on earth; and after this one night I’ll cling to her skirts and fol¬ low her to heaven.”

With this excellent resolve for the future, Goodman Brown felt himself justified in making more haste on his present evil purpose. He had taken a dreary road, darkened by all the gloomiest trees of the forest, which barely stood aside to let the narrow path creep through, and closed im¬ mediately behind. It was all as lone¬ ly as could be; and there is this pe¬ culiarity in such a solitude, that the traveler knows not who may be con¬ cealed by the innumerable trunks and the thick boughs overhead; so that with lonely footsteps he may yet be passing through an unseen multitude.

“There may be a devilish Indian behind every tree,” said Goodman Brown to himself; and he glanced fearfully behind him as he added, “What if the devil himself should be at my very elbow!”

His head being turned back, he passed a crook of the road, and, looking forward again, beheld the figure of a man, in grave and decent attire, seated at the foot of an old tree. He arose at Goodman Brown’s approach and walked onward side by side with him.

“You are late, Goodman Brown,” said he. “The clock of the Old South was striking as I came through Boston; and that is full fif¬ teen minutes agone.”

“Faith kept me back a while,” re¬ plied the young man, with a tremor in his voice, caused by the sudden appearance of his companion, though not wholly unexpected.

It was now deep dusk in the for¬

est, and deepest in that part of it where these two were journeying. As nearly as could be discerned, the second traveler was about fifty years old, apparently in the same rank of life as Goodman Brown, and bearing a considerable resemblance to him, though perhaps more in expression than features. Still they might have been taken for father and son. And yet, though the elder person was as simply clad as the younger and as simple in manner, too, he had an in¬ describable air of one who knew the world, and who would not have felt abashed at the governor’s dinner ta¬ ble or in King William’s court, were it possible that his affairs should call him thither. But the only thing about him that could be fixed upon as remarkable was his staff, which bore the likeness of a great black snake, so curiously wrought that it might almost be seen to twist and wriggle itself like a living serpent.

“Come, Goodman Brown,” cried his fellow-traveler, “this is a dull pace for the beginning of a journey. Take my staff, if you are weary.”

“Friend,” said the other, exchang¬ ing his slow pace for a full stop, “having kept covenant by meeting thee here, it is my purpose now to return whence I came. I have scru¬ ples touching the matter.”

“Sayest thou so?” replied he of the serpent, smiling apart. “Let us walk on, nevertheless, reasoning as we go; and if I convince thee not thou shalt turn back. We are but a little way in the forest yet.”

“Too far! too far!” exclaimed the good man, unconsciously resuming his walk. “My father never went into the woods on such an errand, nor his father before him. We have been a race of honest men and good Chris¬ tians since the days of the martyrs; and shall I be the first of the name of Brown that ever took this path and kept-”

704 WEIRD

“Such eompany, thou wouldst say,” observed the elder person, in¬ terpreting his pause. “Well said, Goodman Brown! I have been as well acquainted with your family as with ever a one among the Puritans; and that’s no trifle to say. I helped your grandfather, the constable, when he lashed the Quaker woman so smartly through the streets of Salem; and it was I that brought your father a pitch-pine knot, kin¬ dled at my own hearth, to set fire to an Indian village, in King Philip’s war. They were my good friends, both; and many a pleasant walk have we had along this path, and returned merrily after midnight. I would fain be friends with you for their sake.”

“If it be as thou sayest,” replied Goodman Brown, “I marvel they never spoke of these matters; or, verily, I marvel not, seeing that the least rumor of the sort would have driven them from New England. We are a people of prayer, and good works to boot, and abide no such wickedness.”

“Wickedness or not,” said the traveler with the twisted staff, “I have a very general acquaintance here in New England. The deacons of many a church have drunk the communion wine with me; the seleet- .men of divers towns make me their chairman; and a majority of the Great and General Court are firm supporters of my interest. The gov¬ ernor and I, too—but these are state secrets.”

“Can this be so?” ciied Goodman Grown, with a stare of amazement at his undisturbed companion. “Howbeit, I have nothing to do with the governor and council; they have their own ways, and are no rale for i simple husbandman like me. But. were I to go on with thee, how should I meet the eye of that good old man, our minister, at Salem vil¬ lage? Oh, his voice would make me

TALES

tremble both Sabbath day and lec¬ ture day.”

Tlius far the elder traveler had listened with due gravity; but now burst into a fit of irrepressible mirth, shaking himself so violently that hissnakelike staff actually seemed to wriggle in sympathy.

“Ha! ha! ha!” shouted he again and again; then composing himself, “Well, go on, Goodman Brown, go on; but, prithee, don’t kill me with laughing.”

“Well, then, to end the matter at once,” said Goodman Brown, con¬ siderably nettled, “there is my wife. It would break her dear little heart; and I’d rather break my own.”

“Nay, if that be the case,” an¬ swered the other, “e’en go thy ways, Goodman Brown. I would not for twenty old women like the one hob¬ bling before us that Faith should come to any harm.”

As he spoke, he pointed his staff at a female figure on the path, in whom Goodman Brown recognized a very pious and exemplary dame, who had taught him his catechism in youth, and was still his moral and spiritual adviser, jointly with the minister and Deacon Gookin.

“A marvel, truly, that Goody Cloyse should be so far in the wil¬ derness at nightfall,” said he. “But. with your leave, friend, I shall take a cut through the w T oods until we have left this Christian woman be¬ hind. Being a stranger to you, she might ask w r hom I was consorting with and whither I was going.”

“Be it so,” said his fellow-trav¬ eler. “Betake you to the woods, and let me keep the path.”

Accordingly the young man turned aside, but took care to watch his companion, who advanced softly along the road until he had come within a staff’s length of the old dame. She, meanwhile, was making the best of her way. with singular speed for so aged a woman, and

YOUNG GOODMAN BROWN


mumbling some indistinct words—a prayer, doubtless—as she went. The traveler put forth his staff and touched her withered neck with what seemed the serpent’s tail.

“The devil!” screamed the pious old lady.

“Then Goody Cloyse knows her old friend?” observed the traveler, confronting her and leaning on his writhing stick.

“Ah, forsooth, and is it your wor¬ ship indeed?” cried the good dame. “Yea, truly is it, and in the very image of my old gossip, Goodman Brown, the grandfather of the silly fellow that now is. But—would your worship believe it?—my broomstick hath strangely disappeared, stolen, as I suspect, by that unhanged witch, Goody Cory, and that, too, when I was all anointed with the juice of smallage, and cinquefoil, and wolf’sbane-”

“Mingled with fine wheat and the fat .of a new-born babe,” said the shape of old Goodman Brown.

“Ah, your worship knows the re¬ cipe,” cried the old lady, cackling aloud. “So, as I was saying, being all ready for the meeting, and no horse to ride on, I made up my mind to foot it; for they tell me there is a nice young man to be taken into communion tonight. But now your good worship will lend me your arm, and we shall be there in a twin¬ kling.”

“That can hardly be,” answered her friend. “I may not spare you my arm, Goody Cloyse; but here is my staff, if you will.”

So saying, he threw it down at her feet, where, perhaps, it assumed life, being one of the rods which its own¬ er had formerly lent to the Egyptian magi. Of this fact, however, Good¬ man Brown could not take cogni¬ zance. He had cast up his eyes in astonishment, and, looking down again, beheld neither Goody Cloyse nor the serpentine staff, but his fel¬

low-traveler alone, who waited for him calmly.

“That old woman taught me my catechism,” said the young man; and there was a world of meaning in this simple comment.

'T'hey continued to walk onward, while the elder traveler exhorted his companion to make good speed and persevere in the path, discours¬ ing so aptly that his arguments seemed rather to spring up in the bosom of his auditor than to be sug¬ gested by himself. As they went, he plucked a branch of maple to serve for a walking stick, and began to strip it of the twigs and little boughs, which were wet with evening dew. The moment his fingers touched them they became strangely with¬ ered and dried up as with a week’s sunshine. Thus the pair proceeded, at a good free pace, until suddenly, in a gloomy hollow of the road, Goodman Brown sat himself down on the stump of a tree and refused to go any farther.

“Friend,” said he, stubbornly, “my mind is made up. Not another step will I budge on this errand. What if a wretched old woman do choose to go to the devil when I thought she was going to heaven: is that any reason why I should quit my dear Faith and go after her?”

“You will think better of this by and by,” said his acquaintance, com¬ posedly. “Sit here and rest your¬ self a while; and when you feel like moving again, there is my staff to help you along.”

Without more words, he threw his companion the maple stick, and was speedily out of sight as if he had vanished into the deepening gloom. The young man sat a few moments by the roadside, applauding himself greatly, and thinking with how clear a conscience he should meet the min¬ ister in his morning walk, nor shrink from the eye of good old Deacon



Gookin. And what calm sleep would be his that very night, which was to have been spent so wickedly, but so purely and sweetly now, in the arms of Faith! Amidst these pleasant and praiseworthy meditations, Goodman Brown heard the tramp of horses along the road, and deemed it advis¬ able to conceal himself within the verge of the forest, conscious of the guilty purpose that had brought him thither, though now so happily turned from it.

On came the hoof tramps and the voices of the riders, two grave old voices, conversing soberly as they drew near. These mingled sounds appeared to pass along the road, within a few yards of the young man’s hiding place; but, owing doubtless to the depth of the gloom at that particular spot, neither the travelers nor their steeds were visi¬ ble. Though their figures brushed the small boughs by the wayside, it could not be seen that they inter¬ cepted, even for a moment, the faint gleam from the strip of bright sky athwart which they must have passed. Goodman Brown alternate¬ ly crouched and stood on tiptoe, pull¬ ing aside the branches and thrusting forth his head as far as lie durst without discerning so much as a shadow. It vexed him the more, be¬ cause he could have sworn, were such a thing possible, that he recog¬ nized the voices of the minister and Deacon Gookin, jogging along quiet¬ ly, as they were wont to do, when bound to some ordination or ecclesi¬ astical council. While yet within hearing, one of the riders stopped to pluck a switch.

“Of the two, reverend sh*,” said the voice like the deacon’s, “I had rather miss an ordination dinner than tonight’s meeting. They tell me that -some of our community are to be here from Falmouth and be¬ yond, and others from Connecticut and Rhode Island, besides several of

the Indian powwows, who, after their fashion, know almost as much deviltry as the best of us. Moreover, there is a goodly young woman to be taken into communion.”

“Mighty well, Deacon Gookin!” replied the solemn old tones of the minister. “Spur up, or we shall be late. Nothing can be done, you know, until I get on the ground. ’ ’

The hoofs clattered again; and the voices, talking so strangely in the empty air, passed on through the forest, where no church had ever been gathered or solitary Christian prayed. Whither, then, could these holy men be journeying so deep into the heathen wilderness? Young Goodman Brown caught hold of a tree for support, being ready to sink down on the ground, faint and over¬ burdened with the heavy sickness of his heart. He looked up to the sky, doubting whether there really was a heaven above him. Yet there was the blue arch, and the stars bright¬ ening in it.

“With heaven above and Faith be¬ low, I will yet stand firm against the devil!” cried Goodman Brown.

While he still gazed upward into the deep arch of the firmament and had lifted his hands to pray, a cloud, though no wind was stirring, hurried across the zenith and hid the bright¬ ening stars. The blue sky was still visible except directly overhead, where this black mass of cloud was sweeping swiftly northward. Aloft in the air, as if from the depth of the cloud, came a confused and doubtful sound of voices. Once the listener fancied that he could distin¬ guish the accents of townspeople of his own, men and women, both pious and ungodly, many of whom he had met at the communion table, and had seen others rioting at the tavern. The next moment, so indis¬ tinct were the sounds, he doubted whether he had heard aught but the murmur of the old forest, whisperYOUNG GOODMAN BROWN

707 ,

ing without a wind. Then came a stronger swell of those familiar tones, heard daily in the sunshine at Salem village, but never until now from a cloud of night. There was one voice, of a young woman, utter¬ ing lamentations, yet with an uncer¬ tain sorrow, and entreating for some favor, which, perhaps, it would grieve her to obtain; and all the un¬ seen multitude, both saints and sin¬ ners, seemed to encourage her on¬ ward.

“Faith!” shouted Goodman Brown, in a voice of agony and des¬ peration; and the echoes of the for¬ est mocked him, crying, “Faith! Faith!” as if bewildered wretches were seeking her all through the wil¬ derness.

The cry of grief, rage, terror was yet piercing the night, when the un¬ happy husband held his breath for a response. There was a scream, drowned immediately in a louder murmur of voices, fading into far-off laughter, as the dark cloud swept away, leaving the clear and silent sky above Goodman Brown. But something fluttered lightly down through the air and caught on the branch of a tree. The young man seized it, and beheld a pink ribbon.

“My Faith is gone!” cried he, after one stupefied moment. “There is no good on earth; and sin is but a name. Come, devil; for to thee is this world given.”

And, maddened with despair, so that he laughed loud and long, did Goodman Brown grasp his staff and set forth again, at such a rate that he seemed to fly along the forest path rather than to walk or fun. The road grew wilder and drearier and more faintly traced, and vanished at length, leaving him in the heart of the dark wilderness, still rushing onward with the instinct that guides mortal man to evil. The whole forest was peopled with frightful sounds— the creaking of the trees, the howl¬

ing of wild beasts, and the yell of Indians; while sometimes the wind tolled like a distant church bell, and sometimes gave a broad road around the traveler, as if all Nature were laughing him to scorn. But he was himself the chief horror of the scene, and shrank not from its other hor¬ rors.

“Ha! ha! ha!” roared Goodman Brown when the wind laughed at him. “Let us hear which will laugh loudest. Think not to frighten me with your deviltry. Come witch, come wizard, come Indian powwow, come devil himself, and here comes Goodman BroWn. You may as well fear him as he fears you.”

Tn truth, all through the haunted A forest there could be nothing more frightful than the figure of Goodman Brown. On he flew among the black pines, brandishing his staff with frenzied gestures, now giving vent to an inspiration of horrid blas¬ phemy, and now shouting forth such laughter as set all the echoes of the forest laughing like demons around him. The fiend in his own shape is less hideous than when he rages in the breast of man. Thus sped the demoniac on his course, until, quiv¬ ering among the trees, he saw a red light before him, as when the felled trunks and branches of a clearing have been set on fire, and throw up their lurid blaze against the sky, at the hour of midnight. lie paused, in a lull of the tempest that had driven him onward, and heard the swell of what seemed a hymn, rolling solejnnly from a distance with the weight of many voices. He knew the tune; it was a familiar one in the choir of the village meeting house. The verse died heavily away, and was lengthened by a chorus, not of human voices, but of all the sounds of the benighted wilderness pealing in awful harmony together. Goodman Brown cried out; and his



cry was lost to his own ear by its unison with the cry of the desert.

In the interval of silence he stole forward until the light glared full upon his eyes. At one extremity of an open space, hemmed in by the dark wall of the forest, arose a rock bearing some rude, natural resem¬ blance either to an altar or a pulpit, and surrounded by four blazing pines, their tops aflame, their stems untouched, like candles at an eve¬ ning meeting. The mass of foliage that had overgrown the summit of the rock was all on fire, blazing high into the night and fitfully illuminat¬ ing the whole field. Each pendent twig and leafy festoon was in a blaze. As the red light rose and fell, a nu¬ merous congregation alternately shone forth, then disappeared in shadow, and again grew, as it were, out of the darkness, peopling the heart of the solitary woods at once.

“A grave and dark-clad com¬ pany,” quoth Goodman Brown.

In truth they were such. Among them, quivering to and fro between gloom and splendor, appeared faces that would be seen next day at the council board of the province, and others which, Sabbath after Sabbath, looked devoutly heavenward, and benignantly over the crowded pews, from the holiest pulpits in the land. Some affirm that the lady of the gov¬ ernor was there. At least there were high dames well known to her, and wives of honored husbands, and wid¬ ows, a great multitude, and ancient maidens, all of excellent repute, and fair young girls, who trembled lest their mothers should espy them.* Ei¬ ther the sudden gleams of light flash¬ ing over the obscure field bedazzled Goodman Brown, or he recognized a score of the church members of Salem village famous for their especial sanc¬ tity. Good old Deacon Gookin had ar¬ rived, and waited at the skirts of that venerable saint, his revered pas¬ tor. But, irreverently consorting

with these grave, reputable, and pious people, these elders of the church, these chaste dames and dewy virgins, there were men of dissolute lives and women of spotted fame, wretches given over to all mean and filthy vice, and suspected even of horrid crimes. It was strange to see that the good shrank not from the wicked, nor were the sinners abashed by the saints. Scattered also among their palefaced enemies were the Indian priests, or pow¬ wows, who had often scared their native forest with more hideous in¬ cantations than any known to Eng¬ lish witchcraft.

“But where is Faith?” thought Goodman Brown, and, as hope came into his heart, he trembled.

Another verse of the hymn arose, a slow and mournful strain, such as the pious love, but joined to words which expressed all that our nature can conceive of sin, and darkly hinted at far more. Unfathomable to mere mortals is the lore of fiends. Yerse after verse was sung; and still the chorus of the desert swelled be¬ tween like the deepest tone of a mighty organ; and with the final peal of that dreadful anthem there came a sound, as if the roaring wind, the rushing streams, the howling beasts, and every other voice of the unconverted wilderness were min¬ gling and according with the voice of guilty man in homage to the prince of all. The four blazing pines threw up a loftier flame, and ob¬ scurely discovered shapes and vis¬ ages of horror on the smoke wreaths above the impious assembly. At the same moment the fire on the rock shot redly forth and formed a glow¬ ing arch above its base, where-now appeared a figure. With reverence be it spoken, the figure bore no slight similitude, both in garb and manner, to some grave divine of the New England churches.

YOUNG GOODMAN BROWN


“Bring forth the converts!” cried a voice that echoed through the field and rolled into the forest.

At the word, Goodman Brown stepped forth from the shadow of the trees and approached the con¬ gregation, with whom he felt a loath¬ ful brotherhood by the sympathy of all that was wicked in his heart. He could have well-nigh sworn that the shape of his own dead father beck¬ oned him to advance, looking down¬ ward from a smoke wreath, while a woman, with dim features of despair, threw out her hand to warn him back. Was it his mother? But he had no power to retreat one step, nor to resist, even in thought, when the minister and good old Deacon Gookin seized his arms and led him to the blazing rock. Thither came also the slender form of a veiled fe¬ male, led between Goody Cloyse, that pious teacher of the catechism, and Martha Carrier, who had received the devil’s promise to be queen of hell. A rampant hag was she. And there stood the proselytes beneath the canopy of fire.

“Welcome, my children,” said the dark figure, “to the communion of your race. Ye have found thus young your nature and your destiny. My children, look behind you!”

They turned; and flashing forth, as it were, in a sheet of flame, the fiend-worshipers were seen; the smile of welcome gleamed darkly on every visage.

“There,” resumed the sable form, “are all whom ye have reverenced from youth. Ye deemed them holier than yourselves, and shrank from your own sin, contrasting it with their lives of righteousness and pray¬ erful aspirations heavenward. Yet here are they all in my worshiping assembly. This night it shall be granted you to knew their secret deeds; how hoary-bearded elders of the church have whispered wanton words to the young maids of their

households; how many a woman, eager for widows’ weeds, has given her husband a drink at bedtime and let him sleep his last sleep in her bosom; how beardless youths have made haste to inherit their fathers’ wealth; and how fair damsels— blush not, sweet ones—have dug lit¬ tle graves in the garden, and bidden me, the sole guest, to an infant’s funeral. By the sympathy of your human hearts for sin ye shall scent out all the places—whether in church, bedchamber, street, field, or forest—where crime has been com¬ mitted, and shall exult to behold the whole earth one stain of guilt, one mighty blood-spot. Far more than this. It shall be yours to penetrate, in every bosom, the deep mystery of sin, the fountain of all wicked arts, which inexhaustibly supplies more evil impulses than human power —than my power at its utmost —can make manifest in deeds. And now, my children, look upon each other.”

They did so; and, by the blaze of the hell-kindled torches, the wretch¬ ed man beheld his Faith, and the wife her husband, trembling before that unhallowed altar.

“Lo, there ye stand, my chil¬ dren,” said the figure, in a deep and solemn tone, almost sad with its de¬ spairing awfulness, as if his once an¬ gelic nature could yet mourn for our miserable race. “Depending upon one another’s hearts, ye had still hoped that virtue were not all a dream. Now are ye undeceived. Evil is the nature of mankind. Evil must be your only happiness. Wel¬ come again, my children, to the com¬ munion of your race.”

“Welcome,” repeated the fiendworshipers, in one cry of despair and triumph.

And there they stood, the only pair, as it seemed, who were yet hes¬ itating on the verge of wickedness in this dark world. A basin was



hollowed, naturally, in the rock. Did it contain water, reddened by the lurid light? or was it blood? or, per¬ chance, a liquid flame? Herein did the shape of evil dip his hand and prepare to lay the mark of baptism upon their foreheads, that they might be partakers of the mystery of sin, more conscious of the secret guilt of others, both in deed and thought, than they could now be of their own. The husband cast one look at his pale wife, and Faith at him. What polluted wretches would the next glance show them to each other, shuddering alike at what they dis¬ closed and what they saw!

“Faith! Faith!” cried the hus¬ band, “look up to heaven, and resist the wicked one.”

Whether Faith obeyed, he knew not. Hardly had he spoken when he found himself amid calm night and solitude, listening to a roar of the wind which died heavily away through the forest. He staggered against the rock, and felt it chill and damp; while a hanging twig, that had been all on fire, besprinkled his cheek with the coldest dew.

'T'he next morning young Goodman Brown came slowly into the street of Salem village, staring around him like a bewildered man. The good old minister was taking a walk along the graveyard to get an appetite for breakfast and meditate his sermon, and bestowed a blessing, as he passed, on Goodman Brown. He shrank from the venerable saint as if to avoid an anathema. Old Dea¬ con Gookin was at domestic worship, and the holy words of his prayer were heard through the open win¬ dow. “What God doth the wizard nray to?” quoth Goodman Brown. Goody Cloyse, that excellent old Christian, stood in the early sunshine at her own lattice, catechizing a litilc girl who had brought her a pint of morning’s milk. Goodman Brown

snatched away the child as from the grasp of the fiend himself. Turning the corner by the meeting house, he spied the head of Faith, with the pink ribbons, gazing anxiously forth, and bursting into such joy at sight of him that she skipped along the street and almost kissed her husband before the whole village. But Good¬ man Brown looked sternly and sadly into her face, and passed on without a greeting.

Had Goodman Brown fallen asleep in the forest and only dreamed a wild dream of a witch meeting?

Be it so, if you Will; but, alas! it was a dream of evil omen for young Goodman Brown. A stern, a sad. a darkly meditative, a distrustful, if not a desperate, man did he become from the night of that fearful dream. On the Sabbath day, when the con¬ gregation was singing a holy psalm, he could not listen, because an an¬ them of sin rushed loudly upon his ear and drowned all the blessed strain. When the minister spoke from the pulpit, with power and fervid eloquence and with his hand on the open Bible, of the sacred truths of our religion, and of saint¬ like lives and triumphant deaths, and of future bliss or misery unut¬ terable, then did Goodman Brown turn pale, dreading lest the roof should thunder down upon the gray blasphemer and his hearers. Often, awaking suddenly at midnight, he shrank from the bosom of Faith; and at morning or eventide, when the family knelt down at prayer, he scowled, and muttered to himself, and gazed sternly at his wife, and turned away. And when he had lived long, and was borne to his grave, a hoary corpse, followed by Faith, an aged woman, and children and grandchildren, a goodly procession, besides neighbors not a few, they carved no hopeful verse upon his tombstone; for his dying hour was gloom.

W EIRD TALES is now four years old. When it first appeared on the news stands, many thought it was “just another magazine,” but it was soon discovered that Weird Tales was a “different” magazine, with a wholesome disregard for the self-imposed editorial limitations of other publications. The fantastic monsters of ancient legend stalked through its pages; werewolves lived again; ghosts and apparitions took on modem trap¬ pings ; specters wailed in haunted houses; and scientists performed weird ex¬ periments in their laboratories. Magazine pages were again opened to the rich literature of the bizarre and fantastic, and with the return of weird fiction to the news stands came the new literature, of which Weird Tales is the foremost exponent—the weird-scientific story. The forward leap that science has taken in the last fifty years has stimulated the imaginations of authors, and in the pages of Weird Tales the future of the world is rolled back, the void of Space is peopled with flying ships, which can go backward and forward in Time as well as Space; mad scientists strive to destroy the world; tremendous dooms rush in upon the Earth from the sky.

The amazing success of Weird Tales has been built upon three types of stories—the weird tale proper; the bizarre and fantastic story; and the weirdscientific story. That these types of stories, which take one away from the humdrum environment of everyday life, are appreciated by the reading public is shown by the steady growth of Weird Tales. We shall continue to give you the kind of stories we have given you in the past. And if you like these stories, if you want to aid in building up an even greater success for your magazine, you can do so by calling the attention of your friends to the feast of imaginative reading it contains and letting them share the good things therein.

The Rev. Henry S. Whitehead, himself an author of note, writes: “Con¬ gratulations on the March issue. I think Lovecraft has struck twelve with The White Ship. It is one of the finest things of its sort I have ever seen. It is literature.”

Harold S. Farnese, of Los Angeles, writes to The Eyrie: “As to the pro and con of reprints, I think it ludicrous to generally praise or condemn them. You have given us some very good reprints, notably What Was It? and The Upper Berth; also the two last ones were entertaining. The one by Andreyeff shows the hand of a masterly author; it affected me strangely days after I read it. But Ligeia by Poe was awfully drawn out, almost pointless, pages of rav¬ ings over the beauty of a certain woman, exhausting the dictionary, as it were,




but stylistically old-fashioned and uninteresting. Give us reprints, but when you select them be guided by their style. Some of the old stories read as if they had been written only yesterday, but others assuredly bore us to death. The days of the great Walter Scott, who was permitted to describe a hillside through sixty pages or so, are over. We want action these days, not longwinded descriptions. ’ ’

“You may say what you wish about the reprints,” writes John D. Howell, of Lawrenceville, New Jersey, “but you can hardly give a stronger argument for them than Lazarus in the March issue. On the other hand, Haw¬ thorne’s stories arc as good an argument against them. Hawthorne writes well, but his weird stories contain too much moralizing. ’ ’

And yet as many readers voted against Lazarus as voted for it!

John R. Springfield, of Philadelphia, writes to The Eyrie: “Mordieu, but Weird Tales is La Magazine Magnijique! When a story makes me go four stops past my station while going to work I am ready to give it due credit. Jules de Grandin and Seabury Quinn should become synonymous with the immortal Poe. Long live both of them! It is not often that I ‘rave’ over a magazine, but the February issue has my recommendation for the Nobel Prize in weird literature.. The Man Who Cast No Shadow, The Atomic Conquerors, and Drome —what more could one individual, no matter who he be, want to keep him on pins and needles? All this is in addition to a superb reprint: Washington Irving’s The Lady in the Velvet Collar. It is a seventh heaven, n’est-ce-past”

Writes Gerald C. Hamm, of East Stroudsburg, Pennsylvania: “I wish to congratulate you on your thrilling serial, Drome. I have been a constant reader of your magazine for two years now and I have never yet read a story so breath-taking and weird as Drome. The writer, John Martin Leahy, is an artist and a master of weird tales. The story keeps one in suspense until one can not wait until the next issue of your magazine. ’ ’

Donat De Lisle, of Montreal, Canada, writes to The Eyrie: “I have been reading your wonderful magazine nearly two years. I am an orchestra leader in Montreal’s most popular cabaret, and I am glad to mention that every man in the band is a constant reader of Weird Tales. I hope you will give us more stories by Seabury Quinn, who is my favorite author.”

Writes Stephen Bagby, of New York City: “Let me congratulate you, as a reader of Weird Tales, for the making of such an excellent magazine. That you are doing a good job is attested by its increasing popularity in New York. It is easy to understand why Weird Tales is capturing readers, since the ‘tired business man’ tod^y is bored to death with humdrum reading mat¬ ter. He wants something to make him ‘sit up and take notice,’ and that is what Weird Tales does. Ordinary story magazines are tame, in comparison. More power to you! For four years I have been a sort of unofficial missionary for Weird Tales, especially among newspaper men, and have found making steady readers easy. It is only necessary to let them read it once, and they’re waiting at the news stands for the next issue. ’ ’

Mrs. Molly Smith, of Akron, Ohio, writes: “Please do publish more genuine ghost stories and those of werewolves. Keep Weird Tales WEIRD.”

Writes Roland Jackson Hunter, of Denver, Colorado: “In The Eyrie you ask your readers if they wish you to continue the policy of including a reprint in each number. There are so many good old stories with weird man¬ ner and bizarre themes that I do not think one a month is too many. But if any considerable number of your readers disagree with me, T suggest that

THE EYRIE


you publish reprints at intervals of two months rather than abandon them altogether. ’ ’

“Hello, Eyrie,” writes Will T. Heideman, of New Ulm, Minnesota. “Say, folks, you know all about how a hypnotist can east a spell over you and all that stuff. Well, that’s just how I find Weird Tales. After I had read my first copy of it, over a year ago, the spell first fell on me. I couldn’t keep from getting the magazine every month; and unlike other magazines I read every single one of the stories in each copy.”

Here comes a knock, flavored with a prefatory boost: “Your stories, always have been incomparable in the wonders of imagination,” writes Mrs. N. Large, of Eugene, Oregon, “but Soul-Catcher, in the March issue, was, to me, an incredibly childish tale. There was no object to the story—in fact no excuse for its being written. If the writer had gone on and told why the doc¬ tor captured those souls he might have made a story. If the surgeon had cap¬ tured the souls in order to people a universe of his own, in order to send them back into animals to study the outcome or had hoped to teach these souls in some manner and send them into the other world to learn there and return to him, imparting their information—in other words, using them as a connect¬ ing link between the outer world and ourselves, we would have been treated to a mighty interesting story.”

Ross L.. Bralley, of Tulsa, Oklahoma, asks: “Why can’t we have an authors’ contest in which the most popular author would be awarded a prize, popularity to be determined by vote of the readers? I’ll say here that in my opinion your two best authors are Seabury Quinn and Edmond Hamilton. The latter can write some of the most outlandish scientific stories and make you think you are reading the truth.”

Readers, your favorite story in the March issue, as shown by your votes, is The City of Glass, by Joel Martin Nichols, Jr., which was closely pressed for first honors by Edmond Hamilton’s Evolution Island. What is your favo¬ rite story in this issue?

MY FAVORITE STORIES IN THE MAY WEIRD TALES ARE:

Story

Remarks

( 1 )-

( 2 )-

( 3 )-

I do not like the following stories:

(1) --- Why? -

( 2 ) - -

It will help us to know what kind of stories you want in Weird Tales if you will fill out this coupon and mail it to The Eyrie, Weird Tales, 450 E. Ohio St., Chicago, Ill.

Reader’s name and address;



What Do You Want?

Whatever it is we can help you get it. Just give us the chance fay writing for

“Clouds Dispelled”

Absolutely Free. You will be delighted. Aet today! Write NOW!!

THE BROTHERHOOD OF LIGHT

Dept. O, Box 1525, Bos Angeles, Calif.

HEALING THE UNSEEN WAV

The Mighty Unseen Powers are Yours Evert as You Will

Let them heal, comfort and prosper you Do It Now!

Give symptoms or desires. Name, address and Free Will Offering for Demonstration and Instruction and Be Convinced.

Aquarian Circle, Elkhart, Indiana

FIRE TRICK CARTOONIST

SONG POEM WRITERS

Send for Bona Fide Proposition RAY HIBBEL.ER

D-50, 2104 No. Keystone At., Chicago

The Curse of Everard Maundy

By Seabury Quinn

A Jules de Grandin story based on the legend of Lilith, the first* wife of Adam

Coming soon in

The Master of Doom

(Continued from page 600)

tors knew—that there was any other land on the globe. Finally our spies landed secretly on the northern bor¬ der of what is called the First Re¬ gion. It was then a barren waste, though now it is a place of exile for enemies of the Master. Years went by, with many secret expeditions, be¬ fore they could get a full knowledge of what had happened. After that, the efforts of everyone in the New America were bent to overcoming those inhuman beings who ruled the Earthband.

“Aviation was developed to the utmost, for that was the Master’s weak point. Vertical control—what was called helicopter control in your time—is now used in all our flying machines. Our inventors and scien¬ tists have perfected hundreds of other things which have aided the cause. Voice projection, which I used in demanding your surrender, is one of them. At last we felt sure the Earthband would be helpless to defend itself when we attacked. We even made one or two practise flights here, on dark nights when we would not be seen. Our spies selected to¬ night as the best time to attack, for all the counselors and officials were to be at the Palace. And we have succeeded, for our men are sure to capture them within a few hours.”

As he concluded his story, the lead¬ er smiled quietly down at Betty and Graham, who were listening in a daze.

“I know it will take some time to appreciate these many changes that time has made, ’ ’ he said gently. “But we shall help you—and we shall need your help in rebuilding the lives of these unfortunate regionites.”

(Continued on page 716)




Goose-flesh Stories

S TORIES that thrill, tales that send cold shivers up the spine, goose-flesh tales of the weird and supernatural—on such tales has the amazing success of WEIRD TALES been built. A rich feast of imaginative reading is spread forth in each issue of this unique magazine—eery tales with a breath of horror; fascinating stories of the spaces between the worlds; prophetic tales that peer far into the future of the world; weird-scientific tales that picture the amazing marvels that science holds in store for us; and tales of terrible dooms that menace our civilization and even the earth itself. Among the many thrilling stories in the next few issues will be:

THE MOON MENAGE, by Edmond Hamilton

A terrifying prospect faced a darkened world—man gone forever, a lightless earth spinning blindly through the heavens, and the moon men its masters from pole to pole.

THE RETURN OF THE MASTER, by H. Warner Munn

The Werewolf of Ponkert returns from the pit of hell to bring about the downfall of his ancient enemy, that sinister Master who has hounded his descendants through the centuries.

SATAN’S FIDDLE, by George Malcolm-Smith

THE BRIDE OF OSIRIS, by Otis Adelbert Kline

THE LEFT EYE, by Henry S. Whitehead

A powerful story of crime and retribution—a tale of immense spiders and a gruesome murder—a fascinatingly told story by a well-known writer.

THE ARCTIC DEATH, by Wilford Allen

Out of the North it came, that dread death that touched every living thing with a killing cold—till a great scientist went forth to fight it.

THE DARK CHRYSALIS, by Eli Colter

Here we have, at last, the epic of the microbe-hunters—a scientific thrilltale of gripping interest and dramatic suspense built around the dread scourge of cancer—by the author of “The I.aat Horror."

T HESE are bu t a few of the many super-excellent stories in store for the readers of WEIRD TALES. To make sure of getting your copy eaeh month, and thus avoid the embarrassment of finding your favorite news stand sold out, just fill out the coupon below and let us send it right to your home. That's the safest way.

"Weird Tales,” to begin with



PIMPLES

cleared up—often in 24 hours. To prove you can be rid of pimples, blackheads, acne eruptions on the face or body, barbers’ itch, eczema, enlarged pores, oily or shiny skin,

no" I oblIr»Uon.oveT 100.000 results. You^can repayhe favor by telling yonr friends; if not

LsTgiVeNS, 466 Chemical Bldg., Kansas City, Mo.

SEXUAL KNOWLEDGE

"THE SCIENCE OP A NEW LIFE,” Dr. Cowan's book tells in plain language sex secrets worth hundreds of dollars. Explains the truth about love, marriage, childbirth, health, hy¬ giene, diseases, sexual anatomy and physiology, birth control, etc. Over 310 pages. Illustrated. Cloth-bound. Price, including two other valu¬ able sex books, $8.50 postpaid. (C. O. D. 19c extra.) Mailed in plain wrapper. Satisfaction guaranteed.

Globe Publishing Co., Div, 806, Syracuse, N. T.

W3ST'

“ssrss

■ lttyOBteWS

Eudnui? Costs ° p,um ’ mor Ph in *

6TANDAiin St LABbRATOfU£‘S' I StaeN* illftlAdoe. $5.00; Cards, *1.26; Inks, J1.50;

Ml H !*■ 11 - Magic Fluid for Transparents, $3.00; Jtsowinv g i lck A<je Cards j 12 b : Factory Headers, $1.00. Sales Boards, etc. Catalog 10c. CENTRAL NOVELTY COMPANY,

118 N. La Salle Street, Chicago, Ill.

OLD MONEY WANTED E ^„ H .

dreds of Old or Odd Coins. Keep All Old Mon¬ ey, it may be very valuable. Send 10 cents for New Illustrated Coin Value Book, 4x6. Guaran- >eed Prices. Get Posted. We pay cash. CLAItKE COIN CO.. W. T. Dept., LeRay, N. T.

TOBACCq&^W

(Continued from page 714)

“Then you will not harm them?” asked Betty, tremulously. ‘ ‘ There has been so much bloodshed-”

The leader shook his head, and the sternness had entirely disappeared from his face.

“They were not to blame. We shall help them—though it will be the work of years. The old regime is gone forever. The counselors will be imprisoned, for in the New America we do not punish by death; but they will soon pass away when their arti¬ ficial life-stimulus is taken from them.”

He turned to his aides and gave a brief order. Then he beckoned to Latta and Rosita.

‘ ‘ Come with us, for we need guides who can explain our purpose to these people. Later, we shall send you back to your friends here, but in a short time you will all join us at our head¬ quarters. ’ ’

They went out quickly, the blond giants marching in serene confidence of their power, the two regionites ex¬ changing shy glances of adoration.

Left thus alone, the two who had lived to see the saving of a lost world looked for a long moment into each other’s eyes. Then, somewhat un¬ steadily, Graham got to his feet, despite the girl’s protest. Slowly, hand in hand, they passed from that chamber of death, with not a back¬ ward glance at the pitiful thing which had dared oppose its Maker.

As they reached the windows tho golden moon shone tranquilly down upon them, creating a soft halo about the girl’s wondrous hair. And then it was that Graham leaned down to whisper something to her. Betty’s lips trembled for a second, then she smiled with all her archness of old.

“I never thought—way back there in Guam—I would have to wait five hundred years for you to ask me that,”



The Man Who Lost His Luck

(Continued from page 620)

“Did you not know that it was on the right side of your body? It is one of the rarest things in pathology, isn’t it? I have seen two eases in thirty years of practise and neither survived to adolescence. Surely you knew!”

Yes, I had known. This was the secret that I had put out of thought and mind.

“How long do you give me?” I asked.

“Four weeks,” he answered.

The blow had fallen. I was to taste the lees at last. For days I wrestled with my despair. And at last I thought of Brodsky. I went to his house. He waited for me, as it seemed to me; he greeted me with a chilling smile.

“Give me back my ill luck!” I cried desperately. “What does all my success avail me now that I have to die?”

“You are asking the impossible,” the doctor answered.

“But it is you who changed the current of my life,” I pleaded wild¬ ly. ‘ ‘ Surely you can undo this thing! Give me poverty,” I raved. ‘ ‘ Take away everything that I possess —money and reputation; let me be the meanest wretch that crawls along the waterfront, but let me live. ’ ’

“You are asking the impossible,” said Brodsky again. “You have re¬ ceived all that life had to offer you; you have drawn to the last penny upon the bank of fortune, and you must reap as you have sown. There is no refuge.”

I hung my head in shame. “Would to God that I had been content with what was given me!” I muttered in anguish.

“Besides,” Brodsky went on, “I

White Magic

and its Laws

A Remarkable Book

LOANED To All Seekers For Power

Whatever you imagine the power of Black Magic may be. remember there is a pure WHITE MAGIC which ia aa potent for good.

With the higher occult lawa and secreta of mystical power you can change the course of your life and attract success, health, happiness and a development of mental foresight that will astound you and surprise your friendai

The Bosicrucians were the Master Mystics in all ages and today they are organized in Lodges, groups and colleges in all parts of the world. In their teachings they secretly pre¬ serve the ancient wisdom that made the Pyra¬ mid in Egypt the marvel of today and tho mystery temples of Greece the most alluring places of strange achievements.

You may share in this great knowledge if you are more than a mere seeker for mystery and magic. If you really desire to master the arcane, occult knowledge of the Masters, step by step, and become a true Adept of the Rosicrucian Fraternity, you may have the doorway opened to you.

The Rosicrucian teachings containing the true knowledge of the mystics are never pub¬ lished in books. But, you may borrow a book called “The Light of Egypt" in which the strange story of the Roslcrucians is told and an explanation of how you may have the private teachings of the Rosicrucian Fraternity in America.

Unless you are truly sincere and anxious to study and gradually become developed in a superior manner, do not ask for this book. Address in confidence, giving name and address in a letter (not on post card):

AMORC TEMPLE

TAMPA,

Rosicrucian Square,

FLORIDA.



warned you not to let go that bar and in a few moments it will bum your fingers. Drop it!” He snapped his fingers sharply in my face. And suddenly a cloud seemed to roll away from before my gaze. I stared around me; around the office, down at my clothes, up into the smiling face of the doctor. The bar had grown thin and weighed no more than a feather. It fell from between my fingers; it was the match which I had struck to light my cigar, and the flames were spreading toward the end. I had lived through two years of life in a period of ten or twelve seconds. I saw the doctor watching my face curiously.

“Well,” he said, “do you still want to draw upon the bank of for¬ tune?”

“It was a dream?” I cried. “Was none of it real?—the electrical ma¬ chine, the luck, the fame I achieved— was none of it real?”

“Happily not,” said Brodsky smil¬ ing. “It was hardly a dream; it was a little experiment in hypnotics, dur¬ ing the course of which I projected into your mind a few random ideas that came into my own. See,” he added, to dispel the remnants of my vision, “your coat buttons are still on the right side, and if you put your hand beneath them you will not feel your heart pulsating.

“I could, perhaps, have brought to bear psychical powers to bring you that luck from which you begged to be released, but there is a simpler way. I want a secretary to help me with my work. Will you accept the post? It will afford you ample time to resume your medical practise, and, if you will be my guest until you get upon your feet again, I am sure that your financial and domestic difficul¬ ties will soon have become things of the past.”

Weird Tales next month.



The Black Castle

(Continued from page 677)

hand moved toward a piece of parch¬ ment before him.

“So, Monsieur, you think you have thwarted me. Your imagination plays you pretty tricks; you have killed your son be¬ cause of them. I, Monsieur, have never left the ether, and yet I have my venge¬ ance. But, Monsieur, if you think for one moment that you have escaped your death tonight, you delude yourself, for die to¬ night you will!”

The count stared at what had been written and a cold perspiration broke out upon his forehead.

Outside the storm raged furiously. The count tore the parchment into pieces and scattered them upon the floor. He ran to the window and shook his fist at the sky and cursed the God who had made him. And, as if in answer to that curse, the clouds parted and a streak of lightning reached out toward him.

From the village below, the people saw the lightning strike the castle. They saw a turret crumble to ruins and come crashing down the steep cliff to the plain, and heard a ter¬ rible cry echo and re-echo through the night.

And some affirm to this day that they heard very distinctly a mocking laugh carried along by the wind above the roar of the gale.

Coming Soon:

The Golden Whistle

By ELI COLTER

A weird interplanetary story of extraordinary interest

Watch for it in

LUCK

All around you there.is abundant Success. Wealth and Happiness. Get Your Share. The "LUCKY SEVEN” Secret Rules are free to all who wear this Rare and beauti¬ ful Talisman Ring. On each side of this Odd and Charming Ring is moulded the figure ot Fortuna — I The "Goddess of Luck" symbolic f of Success Triumphant. Ancient : belief, that her emblem brings suc¬ cess to wearer in Love. Games Business, Health and everything. Genuine 14-K Antique Gold 8. Ring mounted with 32 facet, one carat Radio-Flash Mexican Dia_ mond type gem. Wonderful reproducion of a $500 Genuine Diamond in brilliancy; Cut and Flashing Rainbow Fire. Guaranteed 20 years. Send strip of paper tr - v — --- J -

__ __.o show finger slsend this wonderful ring. On arrival pay tl man only $8.68, plus postage. Nothing m —

Yours to keep, wear and enjoy forever. Wear 7 days and 7 nights—follow the 7 rules that we send you.-If not satisfied your money quickly returned. Address Radio-Flash Gem Importing Co., St. Paul, Minn. Dept. 37-LX.

BUST DEVELOPED

My Bigr Three Part Treatment is the ONLY ONE that gives FULL DEVELOPMENT without bathing, exercises, pumps or other danger¬ ous absurdities. I send you a GUARANTEED TWO DOLLAR

14-day rnrr TREATMENT jTMiL

If you send a DIME toward expenses. (A Large Aluminum Box of my Won¬ der Cream included.) Plain wrapper. IS IT WORTH 10c TO YOU? If not. your dime back by first mail. Address NOW, with ten cents only Madame G. I. Williams, Buffalo, N. Y.

BIG 25c BARGAIN

py Song Parodies; 1 roll se package; 1 Imported

^ ajtys Tricks with cards; 70 Toasts; 1 Now Gypsy ^ Fortune-Teller; 14 Flirtation Signals; 5B^Magic

big catalog by mail for

—.JlUiTUi

sKs'jftn 1 ; Trn;

jdiijatorPres s. 19 ParkRo’^N ewYork.^nr'l:

E ™Lr?h N |S S i^ SF,5K NATHA3



NEXT MONTH

A Suitor From the Shades

By GREYE LA SPINA

T he story of a jealous lover who reached back from the grave to blight the happiness of his sweet¬ heart, using the life forces of a frail girl to materialize himself. Told by the author of “Fettered” and “The Gargoyle,” this ghoststory novelette has a strength and appeal that make it extremely fas¬ cinating.

A human, touching story, with plenty of thrills. This is not the old-fashioned ghost-story, for in this tale the malignant ghost of the dead lover is made to seem real and potent, and so plausible is the apparition that the story seems true—and therefore it grips the reader as the chimerical fantasies of the usual ghost-tale can not pos¬ sibly do. The story will be printed complete

in the

June issue of


On Sale May 1 Clip and Mail this coupon today /

460 E. Ohio St.,

Chicago, Ill.

Enclosed And $1 for special 5 months sub¬ scription to “Weird Tales" to begin with the June issue. (Special offer void unless remittance is accompanied by coupon).

Nome ... .

CityThe Veiled Prophetess

(Continued from, page 614) holly. Then she calls me. Had it been the real Naira in the flesh, she could have stepped over the holly, but her projection, being spirit—and evil spirit, at that—was powerless to move. Also, my friend, I well knew that if I did but keep that spiritual seeming of the real Naira away from her body until the crowing of the cock it might have great difficulty in re¬ turning to its habitation, and would, perhaps, be forced to wander forever through space. The flesh of Madame Naira would, as we say, die, for there would be no spirit to animate it.

“Therefore, I was in position to bargain with her, to force her to give back the ring she stole by trick from the young Penneman and to quit the house and the lives of those young people forevermore.”

“But why didn’t you keep her in the holly circle, if what you say is true?” I asked. “Surely, she would be better dead.”

“What!” he demanded. “And leave her evil spirit, freed from the bonds of flesh, to walk the earth by night? Not I, my friend. In the flesh she had certain restrictions; dying a natural death she shall probably re¬ turn to that unpleasant place from whence she came; but had I tom her from her body by force, she would have still held the young Penneman beneath her spell, and that would have meant death, or worse, for him. No, my friend, I did act for the best, I assure you.

“Br-r-r-r!” he shivered and pulled a comic face as I brought the car to a stop before my door. “I do still shake like a little wet. dog from that experience when s&e stole my coat, Friend Trowbridge, ” he announced. “Come, a long drink of your so ex¬ cellent sherry before we go to bed! It will start the blood to flowing through my frozen veins once more.”

“Heavens, no" Arthur excimmea. wflnp 9 III’ 'I’* £i W'iii '

“He never played a note in his life ”

They Laughed When I Sat Down At the Piano

But When I Started to Play!—

[THE END]
