============================================================
Weird Tales
Volume 35, Number 2
Date: March 1940
============================================================
============================================================
TABLE OF CONTENTS

  1. "Bramwell’s Guardian August W" by Derleth
============================================================
============================================================
BRAMWELL’S GUARDIAN AUGUST W
by Derleth
============================================================
Tara, Queen of the Stars, and of what happened in the silent watches of the night. Keserve your copy at your magazine dealer’s now.


ramwell’s Guardian

By AUGUST W. DERLETH

An odd story about the strange doom that followed the finding of an old Druidic ring on Salisbury Plain

M r. ALEXANDER BRAMWELL was a methodical, unimaginative man who enjoyed nothing more than occasional trips into the country from his home in St. John’s Wood, London. He was tall and thin, somewhat stoop-shouldered, with a habit of peering owlishly through thick-lensed glasses. You would not have thought Bramwell possessed of a hobby, but he was. He was a confirmed putterer; he was the kind of elderly gentleman who cannot resist the temptation to poke his cane down a hole to see whether or not some creature will show itself.

For that reason, Alexander Bramwell made a practise of taking excursions into all parts of the country, the stranger regions the better, and at the time of his strange end, his house was a veritable museum of odd mementoes gathered irom all parts of Britain. This was, of course, before Alexander Bramwell got into trouble; for he did get into trouble. It was inevitable that he would, despite his innate caution about the police, the rules and regulations, which he was scrupulously careful to observe in every case^

However, there were certain rules and regulations of which Alexander Bramwell was blissfully unaware. This was not strange, for doubtless they had been in existence long before the line of Bramwell made its appearance on the face of the earth.

The occasion of Bramwell’s transgression was a hot day in August; the place.

that great somber country called Salisbury Plain. On this day, Bramwell, tired and dusty, sat down in an obscure corner of the plain to rest. The place he chose to occupy was a rocky corner in an otherwise desolate expanse: some bushes, a grove of trees in the near distance, and a solitary spot of shadow sufficiently large to shield a man from the sun. It was in that shadow that Alexander Bramwell sat. For a while he was quite content just to sit, his lazy eyes fixed upon the shimmering waves of heat, his ears given to listening to the high, musical cries of kestrels riding a wind too far above the earth’s surface to mitigate the sun’s heat., • After a little, he became restless; he wanted to move around, but it was too hot to move. He began to scuff, his feet absently against the rocky ground and was suddenly aware that he had uncovered a crevice that bore the appearance of manufacture by human hands. Instantly he forgot the heat and came to his knees to examine it, pulling away a little more of the crumbling stone.

He had indeed discovered something: a tiny cavity, hollowed out of stone and covered over again by rock worn thin by long centuries of weather. In the initial darkness, Bramwell saw nothing but the cavity’s walls; it was only at second glance that his eyes fell upon the small stone ring, set with some kind of gleaming thing of which he had never seen the like. It lay in the precise center of the cavity’s bottom, and for a moment he stared; then he reached out to take it up.

no

BRAMWELL’S GUARDIAN


At that moment Bramwell might have been warned; as he touched the ring, he was conscious of a sudden chillness in the air, he had the passing sensation of something holding him back; but he was so intent upon taking possession of his find that he thought not at all of anything but the ring. He examined it carefully; it was of exquisite workmanship, if crude compared to modern rings. There was about its simplicity a singular beauty; there was also some sort of design cut into the stone band around the setting, which he could not understand. The stone set into the ring might be of hammered gold, he thought.

A fter a long time, he put it into his pocket and set out for home, well satisfied with his day and no longer mindful of the heat which had by this time begun to give way to the coolness of evening. The day was clear, and in all the expanse of Salisbury Plain there was no other traveler; all afternoon Alexander Bramwell had had this corner of the world to himself, with only birds and beasts as companions. ■'JJTien he reached the edge of the road leading to the nearest railroad station, Bramwell turned casually back to look toward that place from whence he had come with his treasure. It was scarcely visible now, but in a few moments he found its approximate location. At the same time, he saw midway between the place of his discovery and the spot upon which he now stood, a fellow traveler: a man in curious dress, he thought casually. And he thought momentarily that it was evidence of his own age that a man could have reached that place upon the Plain without having been observed at any previous time by Alexander Bramwell.

Bramwell lived alone save for a cook and a man-servant as elderly as he. Botkins had been as dependable a man-servant as the dawn year after year, but on the occasion of Bramwell’s return from Salisbury Plain,

he. disturbed his master gravely. Without any intimation of a profound change in his way of life, it might be expected that Bramwell would resent the manifestations of that change. So when Botkins came into the library and asked bluntly, “Where is the other gentleman.?” Bramwell looked at him as if the old man had taken leave of his senses. Before he could reply, Botkins went on, “Will he be here for dinner? If so. I’ll have to send out for something else.”

“What are you talking about, Botkins?” asked Bramwell in a dangerously serene voice.

“The gentleman who followed you into the house, sir.”

Bramwell’s jaw dropped. “I came In alone.”

"No, sir,” said Botkins firmly. '"There was another gentleman — rathfr strange, I thought, sir, but I saw him quite dearly.”

Bramwell put down the Times and looked at Botkins with some dismay evident in his eyes. “Do you feel quite well, Botkins?”

"Quite.”

“Nevertheless, I suggest you lie down for a bit. I’m alone for dinner. You may tell the cook that. And you might have your eyes tested.”

Botkins retired and Bramwell, after several times snorting to himself about this queer idea of his man-servant’s, resumed his reading. A man of habit, he disliked change; he disliked especially any change in someone so old and trusted as Botkins, for a change of this nature was as important to a man like Bramwell as treason was to the Ministry for War. But this first incident he succeeded in dismissing after a while, and Botkins, for his part, was normal enough for the rest of the evening.

However, Bramwell was destined to be subjected to the most damnable annoyances everywhere he went, all on the same score; if he entered a restaurant, the waiter



held up two fingers with an air of polite inquiry; if he entrained, the ticket-taker seemed to want two tickets, inquiring whether the other gentleman was his companion; if he entered the theatre, he was subjected to much the same sort of thing. If Alexander Bramwell had been addicted to writing letters to the Times, he would certainly have written about this infernal conspiracy, as choleric a letter as a retired Colonial might write about a change in the governmental status of India.

WITHIN a month Alexander Bramwell felt very strongly about the matter indeed. At this time: a cool September morning: he encountered Herbert Skelton, an old friend, on the steps of the Archeologists’ Club, and stood there for a brief moment exchanging the time of day and the weather.

"Look here, Bramwell,” said ^Skelton suddenly, "will you and your friend have luncheon with me? I’m just going in.”

Bramwell was naturally extremely sensitive after a month of this. He turned color and began to look very grim. "What friend?” he barked abruptly.

Skelton was taken aback. His mild face flushed and he peered around Bramwell much in the manner of a man in search of a dog. "Really, Bramwell, I’m quite sure there was a man there; I saw him quite plainly — I thought someone from the provinces, to be truthful: perhaps a relative?”

Skelton was not helpful. Impulsively, Bramwell took his old friend’s arm. "Come on; I’ll tell you about it,” he said grimly.

'They went into the Club and Skelton listened patiently to Bramwell’s account. From time to time, he could not help thinking that Bramwell was getting old, but he was disturbed by the violent intensity of Bramwell’s narrative. When his friend had finished, Skelton asked, “When did this business begin?”

"Oh, about a month ago. I was on

Salisbury Plain that day. 'That reminds me; I found a ring there — a beautiful piece. I have it with me.”

He reached into his pocket and handed the ring to Skelton, who looked at it first casually, and then with increasing interest, bending to take in every detail of its de-

"My word!” he said at last. "This is Druidic, I think. Yes, indeed. And how did you find it?”

Bramwell told him.

Skelton grew pale and handed the ring back rather gingerly. He swallowed once or twice. "Tell me, Bramwell,” he said in an oddly strained voice, "was it before or after you found this ring that you began to be bothered with this — this gentleman people seem to see with you?’’

"Oh, after.” Bramwell paused abruptly, remembering the solitary figure on Salisbury Plain that day. "By the way, I wonder — ^there was a gentleman...” And he told Skelton about it with increasing interest. "I wondered at the time where he could have come from.”

Food was set before them, but while Bramwell ate heartily, Skelton hardly touched his luncheon.

"Thought you were hungry,” said Bramwell, leaning back after his meal.

"I was,” admitted Skelton candidly. "But I’ve lost my appetite. Your story did it, Bramwell. Franldy, you’ve upset me. I wonder whether you’d do me a favor: put that ring back where you got it and cover it up again.”

Bramwell’s mouth betrayed his sudden stubbornness. “Put back a priceless thing like that? What ails you, Skelton?”

"Would you believe me if I told you?”

"I’ve found you eminently trustworthy,” replied Bramwell stiffly.

"Well, then — those Druids, you know —there’s a great deal we don’t understand about them. We do know they had many strange and terrible secrets about life here

BRAMWELL’S GUARDIAN


and beyond. Now, this ring; the moment I looked at it I recognized it as an old Druid stone, and when you told me how you found it, I began to think of some of the terrible legends associated with Druid history. Now, there’s the story of their guardians.” He hesitated.

"What guardians? On with it.”

"They are said to have summoned monsters and set them on guard over their hidden treasure. These monsters are reputed to be able to assume any shape — even that of an English gentleman.”

"Oh, I see,” said Bramwell dryly. "My companion then is some sort of guardian. My guardian, eh?”

"For the time being, your guardian, yes. Really the ring’s guardian, Bramwell. I urge you most earnestly to put that thing back on the Salisbury Plain just where you found it. And in no circumstances give it to anyone else, because the ring’s guardian would destroy you if you did, and will destroy anyone who does not replace the ring.”

BramweU snorted and rose. "There’s a vein of the fantastic in all you archeologists, Skelton,” he said. "I heard Flinders Petrie once, and damned if he didn’t hint at a good many strange things. But thanks, and thanks, too, for the luncheon. You people may have queer beliefs, but you can put out prime meals.”

Skelton looked after him with the air of an impartial judge gazing at the back of a criminal just doomed to the gallows, shaking his head a little in pity, but himself quite aloof from the event about to take place.

TT WAS Bramwell’s trouble that he -L lacked imagination. He had always scorned the imaginative life, and made no secret of it. He could not abide the tales of Algernon Blackwood or the stories of Arthur Machen; "Folderol!” he said; a sincere reaction if not a literary criticism.

He could still read Dickens witia relish, however; so he was not wholly lost. Bur he might as well have been. Lacking imagination, Bramwell had no difficulty dismissing Skelton’s story as the implausible creation of superstitious primitives. But it stuck in his mind; he could not entirely rid himself of its shadow; and imperceptibly, it bothered him. It was nothing short of nonsense in his estimation, but it was irritating nonsense, nevertheless.

Within a week, Bramwell’s existence was disturbed even more profoundly.

He had to get up in the night to answer the telephone, it being Botkins’ night out, and, moving toward the chair on which hung the coat in the pocket of which the ring still was, he was startled by sight of someone sitting there. The vision lasted but a moment; then it was gone. But it was clear, it was distinct; even for so methodical a man as Bramwell, it could not be dismissed as an hallucination, or as some effect of light and shadow in the dark room; it was a concrete fact. But it was also true that no one sat on the chair when Bramwell came up to it; it Was empty, yet there lay in the air a tangible smell of age, the aroma of something ancient, something incredibly old, assailing his nostrils as they were assailed on those occasions when he penetrated underground passages in old houses, or caverns in the cliffs near Dover.

He hardly slept for the rest of the night, and in the morning he telephoned Skelton for some further details. But Skelton had nothing more to offer him; he seemed vaguely surprised that Bramwell was still interested, and only reiterated his urgent request that Bramwell return the treasure to its hiding-place. This was not helpful; so Bramwell stubbornly set himself to studiously ignoring the slowly growing evidence of strangeness around him, assuring himself that Botkins had always looked at him queerly, that the cook had always had a slightly evident fear of him.



that his neighbors had been more or less distant toward him for as long as he had known them.

He saw his guardian again in early October, this time quite clearly: so clearly, in fact, that he started awake with perspiration on his brow, for the guardian, a creature built like a man and yet not one, with subtle horror like an aura around it, was sitting on his bedside. It was an unnerving experience, and any normal man would have taken a lesson from it. But not Alexander Bramwell, not he. There was enough Teuton in his ancestry to make him even more stubborn than the average Englishman: a bad combination for Bramwell’s future.

He lay awake ihe rest of the night after his guardian vanished, pondering his vision, and finally came to ihe conclusion that Skelton’s story was really at the bottom of it ail, he having so stimulated those centers of his. brain responsible for this sort of manifestation that Bramwell fell a n^nral victim to hallucination.

This was a momentarily comforting conclusion to arrive at, but again, not helpful.

For -that matter, Skelton was obviously afraid of the ring. So Bramwell hit upon an ingenious idea designed at one and the same time to demonstrate his conviction of

Skelton’s error and to punish Skelton for having frightened him. Despite his love for the ring, he put it into a box and mailed it to Skelton.

This was on the following evening. Having accomplished this satisfying task, Bramwell made his way back to his library and settled himself to the Himes. It was imfortunate for him that having thought enough of Skelton’s story at the last to attempt frightening him with the ring, he did not remember all of it, especially that part of it pertaining to the guardian’s vengeance. He heard a rustling in the corner: a nondescript sound: and looked up to see something that might have come from the Arabian Nights bearing down upon him: a monstrous dark thing, like billowing smoke, with vengeful green eyes that gleamed with hellish fire. In a single instant, the thing was at his throat.

Botkins found him, and was a pitiable object for the few years remaining to his life. Indeed, Bramwell was scarcely recognizable: he was in at least four pieces, and had obviously undergone something frightful. "Blown up by an unknown explosive,” said the coroner weightily.

As for Skelton: he was wise and imaginative. He took the first train to Salisbury Plain, with the ring in his pocket.

By CLIVE LEONARD

A brief ghost tale of the American Revolution

WHEN the defeated army of Lord Cornwallis surrendered to the forces under George Washington, an enemy officer named Captain Alastair Graham found himself paroled in the custody of a namesake. Lieutenant Gerald Graham, a Southerner on Washington’s staff.

They soon discovered that they were descended from the original Grahams in Scotland and, in consequence, discussed many of the family characteristics.

The American, on his part, found a

depth of spiritual belief in the war-hardened Scotsman, while the Scot discovered, in his kinsman, one who was as keenly interested in the strange and sometimes weird legends of the family as he was in describing them.

Thus, with this bond established, it was but a matter of time before Gerald Graham confided in Captain Alastair Graham the story which had become known as the "Specter of Virginia.”

"I was ten years old,” began Gerald, "when, rummaging among the collection




of oddments in the attic I found a rusty, stained dagger, such as you wear in your stocking-top and which is called a 'skean dhu’ or black knife, in the Gaelic. I was surprised that my father had not added it to his prized collection of heirlooms, which included scarred claymores, battered shields and ancient armorial equipment.

"I saw that it was a valuable weapon. A blood-red ruby was set in the handle and it was chased with silver. I realized that my father would not approve if I.purloined it for my own room, but, boy-like, I coveted it.

"So I began to clean the rusty blade. The harder I rubbed those stains the deeper they seemed to become. Thff sun, slanting into the attic, made me almost drop the weapon in horror, for those stains were crimson!

"At first I thought that the effect of the sun, shining through the ruby, was playing tricks with my eyesight, but you can well judge my revulsion when I saw that the stains were piling up — piling up to actual blood which suddenly spilled over and ran on to my fingers!

"I was young, a mere child, and I could have been forgiven if I had run screaming from the attic. But, curiously, no sooner did that red stream strike my hands than my racing pulse slowed. I found that I was deadly cold and calmer than I have ever been since.

"I stayed up there with the dagger drip-. ping for a long time until, hearing sounds below, I suddenly thrust it beneath some old papers, when it stopped pouring its scarlet drops as ^quickly as it had begun.

"Nevertheless, the attic had a powerful fascination for me. An eery, nerve-tingling excitement called me insistently, and although I fought it as something ghastly and dangerous, I found myself submitting to an overpowering impulse to fondle that bloody knife as another might fondle a cat.

«TX WAS a habit by now, and even through my school and college years, whenever I managed to get home, I found my way to the attic and once again drew forth the dripping skean dhu. It never failed to pour out its grisly liquid and the sensation of coldness that rushed over me on these occasions was almost like a drug.

"I struggled against the impulse, but eventually surrendered myself to its baneful influence. On these occasions I overheard guests declare that they had been subjected to harrowing experiences beneath our roof and, in time, many of them refused to sleep there or to remain with us after midnight.

"Now I must revert to an incident which, painful as it was to all of us, was extremely so to one whose love and affection were most precious to me.

"On the occasion of my sixteenth birthday, which took place on a Sunday, my family had invited Miss Stella Manners, the lovely daughter of a near-by neighbor, to spend the week-end with us. She was a most beautiful and lady-like girl and it was understood that, in due time, our families and estates would be joined when Stella and I were married.

"The festivities were continued until well past midnight, when I bade Stella good-night. We kissed on the stairway and then, with her candle shedding a glimmering light on the old pictures that lined the walls, she retired. I was very tired myself and in a very short time was fast asleep.

"&mewhere between two-thirty and three o’clock in the morning a frightful shriek rent the quiet of our home. Again that unearthly shriek rang out and I made haste to throw on a gown.

"Dashing into the hall I stopped in terror and amazement.

"Stella Manners, her hair like a black banner behind her, was flying down the



hallway as if the fiends of Hell were after her,

"The stark terror in her eyes struck me motionless so that I was rooted to the ground. The great pupils of her eyes were wide in horror — a horror such as I have not seen upon the faces of the dead in battle.

"And now — as she suddenly caught sight of my face — her shrieks were redoubled, ringing in my ears like the doleful screech of some eldritch witch. Her head snapped back to stare with mad eyes at whatever shade pursued her, and then she covered her face to blot out the sight of me and screamed again.

"Our other guests, aroused by this terrible scene, were quick to aid her. Trembling in every nerve, she broke from their tenderly restraining hands, leaping into the air and shrieking again and again.

"It was very fortunate that among our guests was the family physician. Doctor Elton, who administered a sedative, and, under the watchful gaze of my mother, Stella drifted off into a troubled sleep in a room adjoining that of my parents.

"Since that day I have not spoken to Stella nor she to me. But through my parents I discovered that she had experienced a most awful and nerve-radcing vision in our house that night.

^<QHE had awakened to find a cold, al-

^ most icy draft sweeping across her bed. Involuntarily, she had stretched out her hand to pull the coverlet higher — and had stopped, immobile and nerveless, at the sight which met her eyes!

In a patch of greenish light from whose center it seemed the icy draft emanated she saw the figures of two young Higjilanders, one of whom, she had tearfully told my mother, was exactly like me!

"The other, slim and dark and dressed in vivid garments that had a French influence, seemed related to him, for he had

the same high cheek-bones and the same bearing of arrogant pride.

"As she watched them, fascinated as to whether they were of this world or the next, they began to quarrel — in silence. Their faces contorted savagely and they gripped their long claymores. Suddenly, both weapons flashed from the scabbards and in an instant they were fighting madly, bitterly, silently— but to the death!

"The fight swayed this way and that. They pressed with deadly eagerness. Both swords, swung with demoniac energy, crashed together and snapped off short, and as if moved by a common impulse both men threw the shards away and drew their shining dirks.

"They circled, each seeking for a lethal stroke, and their rage-distorted faces and the black hatred that seemed to stream from their eyes chilled Stella with mortal dread. She sat up in bed, clutching the clothes around her knees, and watched with fascinated eyes, while the deadly duel continued.

"Finally one of them, the one least like me, was victorious and twisted the other’s dirk from his hand. His opponent fell to the ground on one knee and in the instinctive motion allowed his grasping hand to drop on the ready hilt of his skean dhu.

"To the unspeakable horror of the silent watcher he lunged upward with the sharp blade, tearing into the entrails bf his antagonist who, at that instant, was about to deal him his death blow.

"The man with the dirk must have let his soul go out in a saeam of agony, for his mouth shot open instantly and his eyes stuck from his head in a frightful glare. In the same motion the other rose and with swift, slicing strokes reduced that face to bloody ribbons before plunging his skean dhu into his enemy’s heart.

"That was the final blow also to Stella. What happened after that you already know.”



Gerald Graham, breathing deeply, ceased speaking.

"It was, indeed, a frightful experience,” said Captain Alexander Graham wearily. He rose, his face gray, and tugged at his belt. "And, naturally, you want to know what it portends, why you and yours arCi subjected to this awful visitation?”

<^ald nodded. "Yes!” he answered eagerly. "Can you tell me?”

"I can!” the Scot said quietly. "But first you must promise me that you will either send word home to do it, or do it yourself. And what I want you to do is to burn that skean d^hu you found — burn it in a fierce, hot flame so that no vestige of it is left!”

"Certainly!” Gerald promised, wonderingly. "But why?”

"If this is not done,” Alastair said seriously, "neither you nor your people will ever know freedom from this horror. It will be with you as long as that dagger is with you.

"We know of it at home,” he continued. "We call it the bloody skean dhu of Colin Graham, one of our wildest ancestors, one from whom you are descended. This Colin killed his cousin in that awful duel many years ago and fled the vengeance of the family.

"Perhaps your father knew of it. Perhaps he did not wish to shadow your life with the guilty knowledge of your forebears. In any event it is on your side. Had it been us — we would have suffered in like manner.

"I am glad you told me this story, for it explains, improbable though it sounds, the death of my younger brother, Ian. He was the standard-bearer of the regiment in our last battle with your army.”

"I was in that battle,” Gerald said.

"You were not always with George Washington’s staff, then?” asked Alastair, and receiving a negative shake of the head smiled bleakly.

"Did you then cut down the standardbearer?” he asked. “Was it you I sa-v^ on a bay horse, dashing into the battle and leaping madly over the fallen to run your saber through my brother Ian’s body?”

Gerald nodded, dumbly. His face was a mask of horror.

"You could not help it,” the Scotsman said sadly. "It was beyond your control. 'That ’enemy’ was your own blood-kin. And in appearance he was as like the victim of that bloody duel as you, Gerald Graham, are like that long-dead clansman, Colin — his murderer!"

His hand stretched across the table and Gerald seiaed it eagerly. Tears were in his eyes as he gazed at his war-weary kinsman, noting without shame that he also was in tears.

TT IS pleasant to report that when the

American forces achieved final victory, Gerald returned to his home and, meeting Stella again, told her the whole story, omitting nothing. She, loving him through all these years, and comforting his mother when his father died during the campaign, stood with her arms about him as the fateful skean dhu was given to the flames.

On the instant of the final dissolution of the dreadful danger, a faint scream echoed from the furnace, startling them so that they drew quickly apart. But, realizing that the baleful weapon was now gone and its hateful influence removed from their lives forever, they came together again, smiling into each other’s eyes, their lips meeting in a long kiss.

The Grahams of Virginia, even to this day, travel to a lonely grave up North, where, beside a small stone inscribed: “Here lies the body of Ensign Ian Graham, the Royal Highlanders, who fell bravely on the battlefield,” they reverently place a wreath of flowers in which, all the way from Scotland, a spray of heather finds an honored position.


T^EIRD TALES will pay ten doIlaTS apiece tor true psychic experiences. Have " yon ever slept in a baxmted honse, or been chased by a ghost? Have yon ever dreamed a dream that came true? Has your liie been saved by a vision? Let the other readers of WEIRD TALES know aboat your weird experience. Your story must be brieSy told, in not more than a thousand words; the shorter the better. It mast be tree, interesting, and must deal with the supernatural. Write it down today and send it to WEIRD TALES, “It Happened to Me” department, 9 Rockefeller Plaza, New York, N. Y, We will pay ten dolars for every one used.

“Ihi

G

enturion’s Prisoner

By LINDSAY NISBET

I T IS common knowledge that during the Roman occupation of Britain it was found necessary to build a wall from the River Forth to the River Clyde, across Scotland, to safeguard the territory of the invaders from attacks by the wild Piets of the north.

One ni^t, walking along a winding pathway near a small ^lage in the neighborhood of this ancient wall (now in ruins), I witnessed a weird and astonishing sight.

As I turned a bend in the path I halted, for, barring my progress, there loomed an unearthly column of greeni^ fire in which, to my utter amazement I discerned two figures.

They seemed to walk toward me, yet the light itself did not move.

One of these figures was a youth of haughty, almost arrogant bearing, whose primitive kilf and woad-stained * body proclaimed him a Piet. His air, compounded of disdain and hatred, was accentuated by the glances of contempt with which he favored his companion.

He, on the other hand, was a centurion of the Roman Army. His shining helmet surmounted a strong, noble and cruel face, and he was magnificently arrayed in a short white toga, glittering cuirass and

*Woad$ a bine

gleaming metal leg-guards. In his hand he carried the deadly shortsword of the Roman infantry.

In contrast to the wild, Ikhe savage beside him, he reflected the pomp and circumstance of Gesar. The Piet, ot early Scot, walked with the step of a deer, muscles riffling on his slim, pliable figure. ^

But, somehow, despite his unarmed helplessness, there emanated from him a feeling of suppressed savagery that, in one brief flash, I was to see demonstrated in horrible fashion.

Seemingly docile, the youtii dropped suddenly, throwing himself across the feet of the heavily-armored Roman. Taken by surprise the centurion stumbled over the prostrate youth, his sword flew from his hand and he fell forward on his face.

With incredible speed and agility the captive snatched the sword from the ground.

As the armored Roman, his neck bared ty tiie heavy helmet, struggled to rise, the Pkt decapitated him with one terrible blow of the shining blade!

Freed from the trunk, but still within the shining helmet, held there by the metal chin-strap, the head rolled forward and came to rest against a stump, the dead




eyes glaring sternly at the victorious savage.

As the Roman fell dead, his severed neck a scarlet fountain, the Piet’s face expressed demoniac glee but, catching sight of Ae dead face staring at him, he ceased his wild leaping and began to back away very slowly, trembling wiA fear!

AlAough his body moved mechanically, his eyes were transfixed in terror u^x>n Ae dead eyes that stared — and stared — and stared unwinkingly — bent on his retreating figure with a stern unwavering insistence — alAough the draining head was whitely marble.

Completely carried away by Ae ghastly happening, I did, however, see that behind the youth two men had appeared, each of whom was armed with Ae long sharp spear of Ae Roman phalanx.

I wanted to close my eyes, but some moAid power prevented me. So, unable to avoid it, I witnessed Ae last desperate Aapter in this bloody tragedy.

Tlie advancing soldiers, placing themselves advantageously, ran forward with Aeir weapons levelled and wiA a powerful ruA drove their long, sharp spears into Ae youth's body.

He leaped upward, his mouth flying open in a silent shriek of pain and terror

as Ae long blades burst Arough his breast. The sword fell from his hands. ClutAing at noAing, impaled upon the terrible weapons, he sagged forward, dead, his body running rivulets of blood.

Then, as one sees suA things in a dream, Ae ghostly green light dimmed, faded and was gone. The paA before me was empty of life, except for a belated squirrel seeking its nest.

When I told Ae minister (whose churA is situated just above Ae pathway, on a slight rise of land) about this grisly experience, he took me into his library.

Noted for his sAolarly researA into ancient ScottiA history, he showed me an old parAment, almost shredded by age, in which a Latin version of Ae incident I had witnessed was written down by a historian of Ae period.

"You are not Ae only one who has doubted his eyes!” he said wiA a rare smile. "I, too, saw Ac centurion’s prisoner. It interested me so muA that I searAed for evidence — and found it!

"But — ” and he smiled again, ”1 am not supposed to believe in suA supernatural happenings!”

Neither am I — but — it happened to me — and I have no other Aoice!

1 Talked with God"

(Yes, 1 Did — ActJially and Literally)

aafl M * rretiH. nf (liat little telk with God some ten TCan ago, a strange Power eanie Into niy life. After aj years of horrible, sickening, dismal failure and despair, ererything took on a brighter hue. It’s fasclnatlng tn talk with God, and it can be done very easily once yon leam how. And when you do, well, there will come into your life the same dynamic Power which came into mina The shackles of defeat which had bound me for years went a-shimmerlng — and now? — well — I own control of the largest circulating daily newspaper in niy Coun^, 1 own the largest office building in my City, 1 drive a beautiful limousine. I owtj jny own home which has a lovely pipe-organ in it, and my family are abundantly provide for after Pm gone. And all this has been made possible because one day, ten years ago. I talked with God. Actually and literally talked with God.

You. too, may experience that strange Power which comes from talking with God, and when you

do, if there is poverty, unrest, nnhappiness, Ut health or despair in your life, well— this same God-Power is able to do for yon what it did for me. No matter how useless or helpless your life seems to be — all this can be. changed. For this is not a human power I’m talking about — It’s a God-Power, and. of course, there can be no limitations to the God-Power, can there? Would you like to know how yon too may talk with God? Would yon like to know how this God-Power may come into your life as it came into mine? Then write a letter or post-card to Dr. Frank B. Robinson, Dept. 115, Moscow, Idaho, and fbll particulars of this strange Teaching will be sent yon free of charge. But write now — while you are in the mood. It only costs one cent to find out, and this might easily be the best one cent yon have ever spent. It may sound unbelievable — but it’s true or I wouldn’t tell you it was. Advt. Copyright 10S8 Frank B. Robinson.

T he project of having a nationwide Weird Tales Club to exchange views on weird literature and encourage new authors and artists to interpret the weird, the fantastic and the supernatural, has won your hearty support, since it was suggested in the December issue; but suggestions as to how such a nationwide club should function are very few, so far. Individual Weird Tales Clubs are already established in communities large enough to support them, and combine informal gettogether meetings with serious discussion, to both the social and cultural benefit of the members. But what can be done by a Weird Tales Club for the thousands of our readers who live on farms and in communities too small to maintain local clubs? Their interest in weird literature is just as keen. One very practical suggestion has been made: that our readers who are interested in corresponding with other weird story enthusiasts send us their names and addresses, and we will publish these in the magazine. Why not send us a letter at the same time, telling how yon became interested in weird fiction?

A Weird Tales Club

Richard H. Jamison writes from Valley Park, Missouri: "I noticed Ralph R. Phillips’ letter in the December Eyrie regarding a Weird Tales Club. However, he is wrong in assuming that Gertrude Greazeale’s plea for such a club was ignored. A list of names of those interested in corresponding with each other was sent upon request. I am still corresponding with several persons whose names

appeared on the original list. Calling it a club, however, is a misnomer. A clii has some organization, some purpose, something, however loosely knit, that holds it more or less together. The publishing of the list of names was a beginning, but it was allowed to expire there without ever moving forward. As a suggestion, why not set aside a page or two of the Eyrie for letters and news concerning the club when it is formed? One might almost say that the original club died of starvation. After the original list of names was mailed out not a word was ever heard about the club again, no provision was made for adding new members, in fact I’ll bet a majority of the readers didn’t know that such a club existed. If a page of the magazine were set aside, however, interest could be kept up by suggestions, news, and the publication of new members’ names. One purpose of the club might be helping to put over the Lovecraft Memorial Volume. This book should be a success not only to show our loyalty to lie late H.P.L. but also to encourage the publication of succeeding volumes of his letters and poetry, and the works of other authors such as Howard, etc.”

Hannes Bok

Ray Bradbury writes from Los Angeles: "Today is the day of days for me, for I have just been to the newsstand and bought my copy of Weird Tales with the cover excellently painted by a young Seattle artist named Hannes Bok. I have waited patiently for years to see Bok do a Weird cover — and now the day has come. I can only say that Bok shows





The Moon Terror

By A. G. BIRCH

»<=>o


by A. O. BIRCH

Is a stupendous weird-scientific novel of Oriental intrigue to gain control of the world.

.\LSO>-OTHER STORKS

In addition to the full-length novel, this book also contains three shorter stories by well-known authors of thrilling weird-scientific fiction:

OOZE

by Anthony M. Rud

Tells of a biologist who removed the, growth limitations from an amoeba, ‘and the amazing catastrophe, that ensued.

PENELOPE

by Vincent Starrett

Is a fascinating tale of the star Penelope, and the fantastic thing tha*" happened when the star was in perihelion.


By Farnsworth Wright

Is an uproarious skit on the fourdunensional theories of the mathematicians and inter-planetary stories in generaL


Make sure of getting your copy now before the close-out supply is exhausted. Send your order today for this book at the special bargain price of only 50 cents.

NOTE: This book for sale from the publishers only. It cannot be purchased in any book store.

WIIRD TAUS. Book Dtpt..

9 Reekcfaliar Plaxa, N«w York, N. Y., U. S. A.

Bnclosed find SOc lor cloth-bound copy ot the: moon TERBOB as per your special offer.

Namo.~.

Address^

Citsa wonderful ability in this his debut to Weird fans. It isn’t exactly a cover that could be painted by any of your artists and be better — simply because there’s nothing sensational about it, nothing really outre, but Hannes Bok did his best witli it and, by close examination, you can see it’s mighty superb. His coloring sense surpasses Finlay, and, given future chances at the cover, he will, I have no doubt, give Virgil a run for his money. I only hope the rest of the fan world backs me up on this, for Hannes was first a fan-artist and then an illustrator for Weird. His storj' is the typical story of the struggling artist. Several years back he hitcli-hiked to New York from Seattle, trying to make a scratch on the surface of the sacred doors of the literary mags. He is a protege of Maxficld Parrish, who thought so mucli of him that he gave Bok a box of paints valued at far over one hundred dollars. His private collection of paintings is weirder than Weird Tales. He is a master at portraying symphonies in color, great stories and symbols. Weird Tales needs an artist with such an imagination.”

Nothing but Eyes

Charles Chandler writes from Wooster, Ohio: "Concerning the December issue of WT: After looking at Finlay’s full- page, I saw nothing but eyes — in my sleep too! — ^for a week. That skull! Oboyoboyoboy! As for the stories: top honors — in my humble opinion — go to C. L. Moore, although the story could have been longer. Second place. The Considerate Hosts — the illustration was worthy of comment also. I enjoyed Lovecraft’s poem — ^many thanks for putting it in.”

WT in 1939

Robert W. Lowndes writes from Portland, Connecticut: "Reviewing the year 1939 in Weird Tales is an entirely pleasant pastime. As with all other years, there have been ups and downs, tales, covers, and illustrations which I, personally, wish you had filed in the trashcan, but, as always with WT your batting average on noteworthy material remains refreshingly high.... All three serials this year were weird and excellently written. While ardently fmid of the works of Robert E. Howard, this critic fears that Almuric most



give way to H. Warner Munn’s classic King of the World’s Edge. Despite its fantastic tone, this story had that indefinable tenor of realism which, for some reason, is laddng in Howard’s tales. Perhaps it is because Munn’s tale is based upon solid terrestrial lore and historic realities.... Your reprints this year have been all excellently selected. In reference to this question: my vote is to continue this department, and continue your policy of reprinting the favorites of eight years or more back; interspersed, semi-annually with noteworthy weird tales unobtainable for the most part. But one thing: please refrain from giving us reprints of Edgar Allan Poe, H. G. Wells, Nathaniel Hawthorne — or any other master whose works have been collected, anthologized, and made available to the general public in dozens of editions. I think the rest of the readers can share your (and my) admiration and liking for Poe, but there’s no reason why you should use space to republish his works when other, less well-known master’s gems cannot be obtained except after laborious search of second-hand bookstores, etc. Standing head and shoulders above all else this year is undoubtedly P. Schuyler Miller’s Spawn, a tale that certainly merited the best cover Finlay could have drawn for it And, alas, it could not even have an illustration! Delightful no end has been Finlay’s series of poetry-illustrations, outstanding of which are the ones depicting scenes from Clark Ashton Smith’s unforgettable HashishEater and the Ritbaiytd.”

Too Much Science-Fiction?

FREE


Able treatment for

Stomach Ulcers

Due to Gastric Hyperaclditr

H. H. Bromky of SheOramo. VL, writes:

suffered tot 10 years with add'-atomaoh trouble. Doctors aU told me 1 bad uloers and would have to diet the rest of my life. Before takins your treatment I weighed 143 pounds and oould eat nothing hut soft foods and milk. Now after tAking Yon's Tablets. I weigh 171 pounds, esn eat almost anything and feel pertee^ wen.** If you suffer fttnn indigestion, gastritis. heartburn, bloating or any other stomach trouble, duo to gastric hyperacidity. yon. toe. should try Yon's for prompt relief. Send for FBBB Sample of this wonderful treatment and details of guaranteed trial (rfler. Instructive Booklet is included. Write

FHrDADm.PHIA VON CO. Dept. 881-F

Fox Bids.* Philaddplda, Pa.

fie/ieve ft ch Fast •urMiincjrBadt

For quick relief frenn itching of eczema, pimples, athlete’s foot* scales, scabies, rashesand other externally caused skin troubles, use vtxld-famous, cooling antiseptic, liquid D. D. D. Prescription. Greaseless, stainless. Soothes irritation and quickly stops the most intense itching. 35c trial bottle proves it, or money back. Ask your druggist today for O. D. D. PRESCRiPTiON,

DO YOU Q7 WANT TO ■

OPTOBACCO?

'Si

Banish the craving for tobacco as thousands have. Make yourself free.‘uid happy with Tobacco Redeemer. Not a substitute, not habit forming. Write for free booklet telliim of fn« furious effect of tobacco and^pen^ able, easy way to relieve.

I No wail Pha rm a calCo,

OGpt. 600, Sc. Louis, Mo.

BOOK


HANDLE ONE OF OUR BIG PAY ROUTES Soil To Stores on New Plan Carry a eon^leta **Whole8a]« Supply House** in ' your hand. Let no start you making Big Money \ in permanent business of your own. Show Storekeepers in every business how to DOtJBLB protits on Nationally Advertised Goods. Over 200 Products. No experience needed. \Vo supply everything. Free Book ^ves amazing J facts. Write Today! ^ _ - _

WORLD'S PRODUCTS CO.. Dept. 55-P, SPENCER. INDIANA

Al MacDowell writes from Walden, New York: "Although I have been a reader of WT for about ten years this is the first time I have ever taken the liberty of writing to your department. The stories you publish are all well written, but you are gradually drifting into a magazine of scientific fiction. There are a number of magazines on the market today that devote their entire publications to scientific yams. If we care for those kinds of stories we turn to the kind of magazine mentioned above. WEniD Tales in the beginning ran stories of the supernatural type, stories erf haunted houses, blade magic, etc.

n>Bn-WE m YOU EARN -women

Hera ara many ways and many lines to start a business of your own. with little ot no investment From our circulars alone,

you may conceive an idea worth hundreds of dollars (o you. Make prdlte or save on over 10,000 articles at wholesale, or mauafacture own imxluct. Literature and USEFUL HOUSEHOLD Nl^^SITr SENT FBEEl— Write today.

PROFIT GUIDE SERVICE. 1585 Broadway, Dept. 303N, N. Y. C. A mutual assistance enterprise^No canvassing.

High School Course

at Home

Many finish in 2 Years

i Go as rapidly asyoortime and abiUtiee permit. Coorsn ^mvalent to r^dent^sehool work — prepares you lor

— •»

-.Klaate. Stati rev

a reooett. Ho obllcatloo.

i.ScliQtf,D||fcH-23«. OmilatSStii.’CUc.o.



Next Issue

KHOSRU’S GARDEN

By E. Hoffmann Price

AN UNUSUAL and arresting story about two people who were held prisoned in the intricate labyrinth of a Persian rug that was known as “Khosru’s garden.” The story does not treat of happenings in fabled Cairo or Baghdad, but tells of a fascinating weird adventure in our own, supposedly prosaic, America.

"VOU who have read this author’s * stories, Saladin’s Throne-Rug and The Girl from Samarcand in Weikd Tales, know how interesting a story about rugs can be, when it is written by this master literary craftsman and connoisseur of Oriental carpets'. This story will be printed complete

in the May issue of


on sale April 1

To avoid missing yov/r copy clip and mail this coupon today for

SPECIAL SUBSCRIPTION V ^ OFFER (YOU SAVE 20c) ^

WEinn TAIiES B BocIcefeUcr riaza New York, N. T.

Enclosed find $1.00 for which send me the next eight issues of WEIKD TALES to begin with the Slay issue. (Special offer Toid unless remittance is accompanied by coupon.)

Name..— -

City- —....—.-.—.—.—.State....—... — -

It was a magazine different from other pulp paper publications.... I do not think there is a magazine on the newsstands that runs spook yarns; you have no competitors in that field, so keep Weird Tales weird and spooky.”

In Blank Verse

Florence Cole Heckman writes from South Effingham, New Hampshire; "The other evening, idly wondering what a friend was reading, for the first time I picked up a copy of Weird Tales and glanced through it. Seabury Quinn’s Uncanonized caught my attention, and its charm and beauty held me to the end. I am a high school teacher of English literature, steeped in Shakespeare, Idyls pf the King and all medieval lore. Almost instantly I found myself scanning the cadences in Unamonized. It is written in almost perfect blank verse. Had you discovered that? To say that I was surprised and delighted is putting it very mildly indeed. With sharpened interest I read the rest of the magazine, and wish to say that in my opinion it is a superior collection of beautifully written stories. 1 wish especially to convey to Seabury Quinn my delight in his lovely and poetic tale; in the artistry and perfection of his style.”

Dead Man’s Schooner

Henry D. Barnett writes from Crystal Qty, Missouri: "First of all, a word about that shuddery little yarn. Dead Man’s Schooner, by Andre Linville. It was another of those little surprise stories ending with a sudden punch which seem so rare. Even as I write this, I am still wondering just what did happen to the Acadia and to lovely Edith. I believe I shall dream about the strange things that happen on mysterious oceans. My vote for the best story in your December issue goes to Mannikins of Horror, the gruesome, insidious little tale by Robert Bloch. I actually lived a manifold life in each and every character as I read. 'Unusually horrible’ is the only classification for that story.”

Hang Them?

Frank L. Baer writes from Washington, D. C.: "If Uncanonized had been a serial I


believe I should have enjoyed it as much as anything ever written in that genre. As it stood — all too short — I found it in Quinn’s best vein, admirably presented and alive with clear-cut portraits and engrossing scenes. Then, when the December number of WT arrived I was startled by the flank attack upon him by several readers. This was distinctly odd — almost weird — in the light of a reader vote of the month before when his yarn was named the best in the issue. At first glance it appeared as though his popularity had inspired a plan for liquidation. Correct me if I am wrong. [Wrong. What editor would want to liquidate one of his most popular authors even if occasionally one of his yams proves not so much to the liking of those interested readers who take the time and trouble to write to the Eyrie Such a policy would be suicidal. — ^The Editor.} As to reader responses and the florid expression thereof, I am just a little fed-up with them. They go, in too many cases, beyond the borderline of expression, reaching into editorial privilege wherein the editor h told how to run his magazine.... Why don’t you continue to be die editor, buy the stories you think are fine and worth printing, and let the readers (including this one) go hang to the nearest tree?” [We shall continue, as always, to print the be^ weird fiction obtainable. — T he Biitor.}

A Great Writer

Mrs. E. W. Murphy writes from Washington, D. C: "I read in the Eyrie last night something which simply infuriated me.... That was the smart remark of one of the fans on Seabury Quinn, specifying The Lady of the Bells, and suggesting that he is writing too much. Long years ago I protested to you about some of Quinn’s de Grandin stuif, which was both formula and not even at the time always original with him, and that was one of the occasions when you snapped me on the nose for saying what I thought. Now — ^again to proceed to the present — I am one of what I fear is a minority who can appreciate real art. I know if and when I touch it; I can recognize it freely in others. Quinn is just beginning, of late. He not only touches art in these latter years — ^he achieves it with


GUARANTEED TIRES!

FREE!

^ WithEvety cnresordem

GOODYEAR'GOODRICH FIRESTONE •U.S. and

Other Standard Makes'

World’s Lowest TIRE PRICES

Tire users by the Choi^nds all ever the U.S.A. voueb for fbe Lcmis Hbb^ Service of oar Standard Brand tires recondik methods by oor tire lexperts. OarSA J years experience Tmakea It possible to Toff er ti^s at lo fagremnent to ^tnre that fails to ^EVERYTIRE

BALLOON TfRI^_ REGULAR CORD TIRES

34x4>i 3^ L45 30x5 3.65 1.65

83x5 3.75 1.75

35x5 3.9S 1.75

prio^vil^

I nF 2.9S ^.26

i*li i’ll 32x4* 2.95 1.26

i’iS HI 33*4 2.95 1.25

I 2ta4!75-20 irSo xA 3^14 i*ff HI

I 29x5.00-19 2.85 1.25.i „nir nn.nrr n

130*5.00-20 2.85 1.25 HEAVY DUTT TRUCK TIRES

I 6.25-17 2.90 X-3S _ [Hfe’

I 28x5.25-13 2.90 1.36 Use Tires tS 1 2915.26-19 2.95 1.36 30x5 I 80x5.25-30 2.95 1.3S 33x5 181x5.25-21 3.25 1.36 34x5 I 5.5D-17 3.35 1.4C 32x5 7.95 2.95 31v55 4.95

I S8x5.SO.lS 3.35 1.4C 35x3 9,95 4.4ik0x3 X3.28 4AS I i'll HI TRUCK BALLOON TIRES

I Hr IPsbe^lxe ^ Tires Tube*

*a-ii 84x7 f 10.95 f4.65 1*11 I’ll 88x7 10.95 4.65

.8.95 4.95

8.9^8.0^10 J9S5 MS

I 82 x 6.^^ 3I75 L'TSt/UX Cmra HTJ 1

' &oo>id 3.75 liqsiZES ’ aart

ISEND ONLY $1.00 DEPOSIT on eaeh tire ordered. I ($8.00 on eai^ Track Tire.) We ehfe helftTwe o. O. D. I Deduct S per cent If cash h sent in toll with order. To J fill otdOT promptly we may enbstltate brands if net^a* fssvy. ALD TUBES BBAI^OHEiW—GUABANTBED*- PBtRY-nELD TIRE &fiUBBER CO. i232S.30S.I»BcliteMAv.,l».pfet443. CMeago,BI.

FAtSETEETH

90 DAYS' TRIAL

If you need teeth but do not care to spe nd much money, WHITE TODAY about My Method and LOW PBICES, YOU MUST be 100% SATISFIED or I will refund your money any time within your 90 day I have many

satisfied customers in United States and Canada, MY METHOD IS FOUNDED ON 30 YEARS’ EXPERIENCE.


WRITE TODAY for FREE BQOKLHT and MATERIAL.

DR. CLEVELAND DENTAL LABORATORY Dept. 50-BO, S03r05 Missouri Ave.. East St. Louis, III.

HflAOtlOCliUTY

1*11 give tiiis big,, complete Mtmey MaWn g Outfit, including large assortment of regular full size packages— absolutely FREE — to one reliable man car wwnan in eadi open

locality. Tear ’round profits, ^ ^

with famous line of over 300 guaranteed delickms foods ana other dally nece^itles. No experience needed. Full or part time. Liberal CTedit plan. Old reliable company. Be first in your locality. Write Quick for my Free €«er!

E. J. MILLS, 1529 Monmoitth Ave., Cincinnati, Ohie



NEED RELIEF From AGONY of


Cansed fiy Gastric HyperacidHy

■pans If yon are one of those men or women who l|B| M have ‘^ried eTerything^ and given np hope relirf we urge you to try this effective, yet simple inexpensive way at home. Pain Kl and distress relieved from the start. Numi hers report they were saved from expensive

^ /M|3 operations- If after meals and at night you have pain and distress from Gas, Acid, Sour Stomach, or Tllcers due to gastric hyperacidity pMfjP write for valuable booklet with informa- ■ K&Em tion as to guaranteed trial offer.

TWET omr VON COMPANY, Dept. 203, St. Paul, Hfinn.

WoHd^s largest holders of

SCIENCE FICTICN PUBLICATIONS Price list free

POlSi 2101 W. Grand Concoarse, New York Cify

I M. I I. I.III II III.. I.■■■ I ■.11... — -


{aWBRRRBBMSaRBnHHI

Boc^ by horecra^ Mssil*, Qidim, etc., rented by ©aiL 3c & day plus postage. Write fta ftee KsL WEREWOLF LENDING LIBRARY. 227-0, So. Atlantic Avenue. Pittsburgh, Pa.

a definite stireness which will, I really believe, in the years to come make him the one outstanding writer you have had.... Glamour is a pinnacle in artistry of the type you want whicii will never be beaten and very seldom equaled. It superimposes that Other World upon this one, breathing and real and in color; it furnishes rich character interest; it never forces an effect — its word pictures are gripping, superb, and absolutely satisfying. I say all this because I mean it, and I mean it b^use it is so. No other writer has hit anywhere near it at any time.”

Escape from Tomorrow Caroline Ferber writes from Qiicago: "Ah! Escape from Tomorrow was an escape at the end. Why, the durn thing almost had me worried over the possibilities of life in future ages. Writer Long handled it nicely by having the Brain rebel. King of the World’s Edge ended in grand style — the whole was excellent, although at times there was too much fighting. It was an unusual type of tale — ^thoroughly adventure — quite absorbing. One of those that are long remembered. The reprint is an out and out horror chiller — it’s almost mental torture to think of that great gray rat under the copper bowl. A good one. While on the subject of reprints, you a.sk the readers’ suggestions. My own

is to have your reprint in each issue, selected for the greatest part from old issues of WEmn Tales. Some of them are real treats — and your selections are usually from ten years back, approximately. 'There are some people who weren’t reading WT at that time. I’m for the same policy as heretofore.”

Nude Covers

Elmer Altreith writes from Baltimore, Maryland: "A year ago I saw a copy of Weird Tales on a bookstand and was attracted by the cover, on which was one of the beautiful nude studies by Finlay, I think. Later, owing to a lot of fanatics, these were omitted in spite of a number of requests for their retention. However, your stories are aU pretty good and I am renewing my subscription in the hope that occasionally you win print one of the old-time covers, that is, a new nude by one of your two wonderful artists to illustrate a story therein, say every three or four months.”

The Insiders

Weaver Wright writes from HoUyv/ood, California: "Having read of the 'Outsiders’ of Washington, D. C., and the plea on the part of reader Ralph Rayburn Phillips for the formation of other Weird Tales Clubs throughout the imagi -nation; I should like to take this means of informing the imaginatives of Los Angeles and environs of the existence of just such an organization in this vicinity. Over one hundred consecutive meetings have been held!,We might be termed the 'Insiders,’ as Henry Kuttner himself is a member and such fantasy field celebrities as Dr. KeUer, Catherine Moore, Robert Blodi, Jim Mooney, Arthur J. Burks, Ralph Milne Farley, Emil Petaja, 'Eando’ Binder and Hannes Bok have met our members on trips to L. A. We are anticipating early visits from Virgil Finlay and Edmond Hamilton. Anyone interested in Weird Tales will be more than welcome to fraternize — ^we urge you to attend a meeting at your earliest opportunity, riei^Jiboring weirdists! Other-dty and out-of-state visitors, of course, always especially welcome. We maintain a monster magazine library for the free use of all mem127


bcrs, with Weird Tales running back over ten years, and The Hyborian Age and A History of the Necronomicon. The ’Ghouls’ Gettogether’ takes place every Thursday night of the year (excepting rare fifth 'Thursdays, when we all turn into vampires and go out and 'paint the town red,’) Gang starts gathering around 6 o’clock with Black Mass or Business Meeting approximately 8:30. The address (to be avoided if you value your life): Clifton’s Cafeteria, 648 S. Broadway, Los Angeles, Calif.; third floor, right, and rear, Little Brown Room.”

A New Idea

Charles Hidley writes from New York City: "Two of my best friends, imaginatively speaking, copped the first prizes in illustration and story ’contest’ this month: Virgil Finlay for his character study of Mannikins of Horror, and Bob Bloch for dreamin’ up such an original idea. Alive-dolls has been used as a theme many times before, but not with such an individual touch. Just the idea of having the different parts of my body prancing about by themselves gives me the ’squeams’ and jitters. The idea of the doctor forming each nerve and organ and vein was most interesting. Applause again for these young men. Hurrah and huzzah for a new artist a month! Hannes Bok’s interiors are very good — ^his cover superb. Best conception of Northwest Smith so far — ^good drawing all round. The cover was clever, too, but hardly weird. But the shocker, the 'drawing you didn’t expect to meet,’ was that one for Escape from Tomorrow. He has fallen right into the mood that F. B. Long inspired in that strange tale of the rather insane future.”

Most Popular Story

Readers, what is your favorite story in this issue.? Let us hear your comments. Send a letter or a post card to The Eyrie, Weird Tales, 9 Ri^efeller Plaza, New York Qty, telling ns your opinion of our magazine. The most popular story in the December issue, as shown by your votes and letters, was the concluding instalment of H. Warner Munn’s strange tale of adventures in prehistoric America, King of the World’s Edge.

BO

yom CHotcE^uNontvooDS!

tOrAt$!UMlNGTON!l.e. SMITHS) ^

WOODSTOCKSi As lew «t 1/3 mfgrs. arl 9.

S riee. T w ewr i fwttefeosf ep t9 SI IO.QO — e» m m S2AI.30. GenoiiNi. fUaderd, iuB shed rebolU efficeowdcb - ap- t o-date hnpc o ^c ne sts — ataodard key jf*^ L fcofd. bedt ipseet, fibbQi M CTers s, 2 color sibbee. etfc Never before seeb rodc> bettoai iiriees! Fin4.T GUARANTEED! Becked by 30 yesrt of f»tr desirng. Tee dsjr tchL EetieM Senn a is hisU«y>^ low as SO^a week.

MCE big price stssbing caeafog showe all oukes b» colon. detiAs tm tO day trial and eashri terms. MEE Van Zandi Touch Typing cotine with year type* wrilet. See catalog before you bay. Mai) eaapoa bow wMfo stock b coMplefe*

r iNTHIMTION 'exchange 6

: 23) w. UonroeSl.. Chicago. IIL (OepL^dS*) |

I Scad Free Catafog m eofors sftowing late ibo<M riandaed Typevriten | S at tremendons sam^s with oo meoey down aad )0 days* trt^ s

|i»-_

Cash When Sick

Over 120.000 People Hove Alreodv Provided a Cosh Income Up to $100 o Mooth

Si(^ beaiefits op to $100 a mcaitti when too are laid op from ANT kind of Bickness will be paid under a New health policy now issued by the Natiooal Protective Insurance Co.

Men from ages 18 to 69 and women from ages 15 to 59— wheth^ employed or not— and who are now in good health are eligible. No ^tplication to fill out. No medical ezamlnatkoi reqalred.

Sickness strikes toddenly and unexpectedly. It alivays causes greatly Increased expenses and usually a r^uced income. Over 120,000 people have already bought National Protective health policies. Over one and me-half million dollars have been promptly paid in benefits to policyholders.

S£NI> NO MONBT. Just write your name, address, age and sex to National Protective Insurance Co., 3010 Pickwick Building. Kansas City. Mo., and toey will mail you a policy for 10 days* Free Inspection. See the policy first and if you are satisfied, then send us $3.65 to pay the premliun tor nearly five months. This offer is limited* so write today.



ViTtbm a need Speed Eng— gives you hot water fast and cheap. "Dtoq into any pan of watOT— plug Into socket— in 60 seconds you have hot water. Bush your name for sample offer for OP dwnonstrator. Plenty cash profits for No money. Just s^d name. Postcard will oo*,

NU-WAYMFG.C0,

Pocket Size SAMPLES FOR agents] SEND NAME!

TIME COUNTS— don't risk delay In patenN ing your invention. Write for new FBKB "Book and Record of Invention form. No diaige for preliminary information.

CLARENCE A* O'BRIEN

Registered Patent Attorney Dcfrt. OB5* Adams Bldg.* Washlfigten, 0. C.


K irk WILSON came back to consciousness slowly. He was lying on the fore companionway of the yacht, drenched with sea water, and a litter of miscellaneous debris had washed down the steps onto him. He lay for a moment dazed, his head throbbing with pain, trying to remember what had happened. The catastrophe had come so suddenly that everything was still mixed up in his mind.

The motor yacht Estrella, of which he was first mate, had been sailing smoothly over the glassy South Pacific when it had happened. There had been no warning at all.

A towering blue wall of water had appeared in the southeast, a mountainous mass of sea that rolled with incredible swiftne^ toward the yacht. Kirk Wilson had been racing up from the companionway to the deck, when that advancing wall of water hit the Estrella and flung it like a toy. Then he had known nothing more.

As he clambered painfully to his feet, he became aware that the yacht was tossing on big waves. As he emerged onto the deck, he stopped, appalled by the sight that met his eyes....

The almost incredible sight that met Kirk Wilson’s gaze, and the weird adventures that awaited him and his companions, make a story you will long remember — ^the tale of a lost continent thrown up by the sea, and the dreadful menace it held for the people of our world — a thrill-tale of startling ijerils and uncanny disaster. It will be printed complete in the May issue of Weied Tales:

The City From the Sea

By Edmond Handlton a wealth o£ other superb weird stories

THIS

BEAUTIFUL DESK oTv n 20

WITH ANY


A beautiful desk in a neutral blue-green — trimmed in black and silver — made of sturdy fibre board — now available for only one dollar ($1.00) to purchasers of a Remington Deluxe Noiseless Portable Typewriter. The desk is so light that it can be moved anywhere without trouble. It will hold six hundred (600) pounds. This combination gives you a miniature office at home. Mail the coupon today.


To help you even further, you get Free with this special offer a 24-page booklet, prepared by experts, to teach you quickly how to typewrite by the touch method. When you buy a Noiseless you get this free Remington Rand gift that increases the pleasure of using your Remington Deluxe Noiseless Portable.

Remember, the touch typing book is sent Free while this offer holds.


The Remington Deluxe Noiseless Portable is light in weight, easily carried about. With this offer Remington supplies a beautiful carrying case sturdily built of 3-ply wood bound with a special Dupont Fabric.


ALL ESSENTIAL FEATURES of large standard office machines appear in the Noiseless Deluxe Portable— standard 4-row keyboard; back spacer; margin stops and margin release; double shift key; two color ribbon and automatic reverse; variable line spacer; paper lingers; makes as many as seven carbons; takes paper 9.5" wide; writes lines 8.2" wide, black key carcJs and white letters, rubber cushioned feet.


NOW!

Remington Rand Inc. Dept 117-2 465 Washington St., Buff^o, N. Y.

Tell me, without obligation, how to get a Free Trial of a new Remington Noiseless Deluxe Portable, including Carrying Case and Free Typing Booklet, for as little as 10c a day. Send Catalogue.


The Remington Noiseless Deluxe Portable Typewriter is sold on a trial basis with a money -back guarantee. If, after ten days trail, you are not entirely satisfied, we will take it back, paying all shipping charges and remnding your good will deposit at once. You take no risk.

I Name... I Address.

City.

.State.

12 Weeks Practical Training in COYNE^hops

In the Big Coyne Shops you have individual help by expert iMtnictors so that you quickly and easily learn Electricity by actual work. No advanced education or previous electrical experience is needed. You are taught... Not by correspondence, not by books or embarrassing reciting... but by the Famous Coyne **Leam-By«D(^ng" training method which has helped hundreds of successful graduates to get and hold the job they like, or go into business for themselves.

At Coyne you do PRACTICAL ELECTRICAL WORK on real electrical equipment.




If you are short of money and need parttime work to help pay for your room and board while training, my Employment Department will help you get a part time job. When you have graduated, fiiey will give you Lifetime Employment Service.

You wind real armatures... run real motors, dynamos, generators. When you have finished each step, you KNOW HOW because you have done H yourself. If you are ambitious here Is your chance to get the PRACTICAL TRAINING to qualify you for your stait tn the great rieetrical field.

^uC.Qwct


I think the “pay after graduation" plan... offers the fellow who wants to get ahead in hie a wonderful opportunity... I am now emf loy^ by the Power Co,

have been employed by this Company ever since graduating from COYNE... 1 make almost double what I did at my previous work... COYNE School helped me in landing the job 1 now have.

James Dible

I owe a lot to COYNE,.. I secured a job after returmng home wiring cranes for the — — — Machine Co. Before going to COYNE 1 was clerking in a grocery store earning the usual clerk’s wages. I was in doubt about quitting my job but 1 have tripled the cost of the entire cour8e...in the first ten months. The school is everything you say it is and more. I was completely satisfied. Thanking you for your kind cooperation while at school and since returning home. — Jack E. Stroup


Don't let lack of money keep you from sending in the Coupon now. My Big -FREE Book is full of facts and photographs which tell you about Coyne Training. It also gives you the details of my Pay After Graduation Plan, Spare Time Employment Offer, Graduate Employment Service, Lifetime Scholarship and other advantages.

COYNE occupies this endre Modern, fireproof Building

Send Today (or this FREE Book!

COYNE


PnUniTinUIMP H. C. lewis, Piwsldent,

UUNUI I lUNiNu j COYNE ELECTRICAL SCHOOL,

At this time I pm In- | in

ciuding additionai valu- I ^ j

able in«trnrtinn In fhecp Dear Mr. Lewis: — Without obligation send me

yoar big free illustrated catalog, with all facts two important branches | about Coyne Training and det^s of your ‘ Payof electricity. | Tuition-After-Graduation" Flam as well as the

I details of your 4 weeks Radio Course you are t including.

H. C. LEWIS, President POUNDED 1899 j

ELECTRICAL SCHOOL I Address

500 S. Paulina SL, Dept. 20-66, Chicago, III. I 5^

! Mail in envelooe or oaste on a poatcarc

"LEARN BY DOING"

£eam

ELEaRICIIY


PayForlfi>ur Iraining After Yon Graduate

Kind out an about this wonderful offer. My big Free Boc^ tells you how you can train fpr your start to a big pay job In Electricity. And through my "Pay Tuition After Graduation^ Plan you cm g^ your training now and pay feu: most of your tuition in easy montiily payments mt^ you graduate.

[THE END]
