============================================================
Weird Tales
Volume , Number 
Date: November 1929
============================================================
============================================================
TABLE OF CONTENTS

  1. "Scarlatti’s Bottle August W" by Derleth
============================================================
============================================================
SCARLATTI’S BOTTLE AUGUST W
by Derleth
============================================================
4A Short Tale of Black Magic

Scarlatti’s Bottle

By AUGUST W. DERLETH

HE day was hot. The troops

of the Gonzaga were encamped

before the city of Mantua.

Some distance away the armies of

the Orsini and Colonna were stationed, and far away could be seen

the flying banners of the Bull, the

victorious Borgia. Dark, ominous clouds brooded low on the horizon.

The soldiers stood about in little

groups. In one of these groups a

young man interrupted the discussion of the Borgia maneuvers by a sudden, abrupt change of subject.

‘It is rumored among the troops that the young Duke Gonzaga has incurred the displeasure of Messer Searlatti, the magician.’’

““Of Mantua?’’

‘‘Of Mantua.’’ He nodded. ‘‘Have you heard of such rumors?”’

““Yes,’’ said one of them suddenly. ‘Tt is said that Messer Scarlatti has presented the duke with a magic bottle in token of his forgiveness.’’

A few of the soldiers raised their eyebrows questioningly; one smiled, with cheeks drawn inward.

SCARLATTI’S BOTTLE

“T doubt Scearlatti’s good-will. Searlatti has never yet forgiven an insult such as the Duke Gonzaga imposed upon him.’’

“*Yet the duke had grounds for insulting him.’’

‘How is that so?”’

The first soldier shrugged his shoulders eloquently. ‘‘Messer Scarlatti ridiculed Messer Mantegna’s mural of the family group in the bridal chamber of their Mantuan castle.’’

‘‘Others have done so.’’

‘*And some have lost their heads in consequence. ’’

Someone laughed suddenly. ‘‘Searlatti is a wily devil. You know, there is a condition attached to this bottle.’’

‘fA eondition?’’ The soldiers leaned eagerly toward the speaker.

“*Yes. Messer the Duke Gonzaga is never to open the bottle. It is rather a futile condition, I believe. For in the bottle can be seen a small piece of paper, folded carefully, so as to show a bit of writing here and there.”’

Sk, think the duke will open it

“Without a doubt.’’

““Were I he, I should heed Scearlatti’s warnings carefully.’’

“‘But you are not he.’’

“Quiet. Here he comes.’’

Messer the Duke Gonzaga rode slowly past his officers. The wind eaught his thin beard and blew it skyward. The long plume on his cap partly obscured his features. From his belt hung a small bottle, lightly eolored pink.

“‘That is the bottle,’’? said someone in a whisper, so that the duke partly turned and regarded them.

“*T doubt whether it has value.’’

“‘Messer Scarlatti said nothing of its quality; he warned that all its power would be lost if the bottle were opened.”’

‘“We shall see. The duke will never keep his hands from the bottle.’’


The Duke Gonzaga rode slowly through his father’s camp. He came at last to his father’s tent, which he entered as was his custom. His father, a heavily built man, rose to a sitting posture when his eldest son entered the tent.

“You wear the bottle still, Arturo?’? e ; ““Why not? It can not harm me.’’

“‘T can not bring myself to trust Scarlatti, for all that I know of him. You shall see, my son; no good can come of it.’’

“And why, pray tell me?’’ The young duke drew off his gauntlets and stood looking down at his father.

“‘Arturo,’’ the older man _ admonished, ‘‘you do not know Scarlatti as I do.’’

“‘Tf he is then such a dangerous man, why have you not had him imprisoned and sentenced ?’’

“‘One can not always do as one wishes with a magician. I once had him imprisoned, but the following day he met me on the street. He greeted me and made a joke of the imprisonment. He said that the next time I would not even take him. It was true; though I tried again and again, I could not take him. He disappeared in most mysterious manners; so that at last my soldiers hesitated about obeying my orders. I had, at length, to conciliate him with gifts most costly.’’

“‘T should say that he jested with you, Father.’’

“Tt is characteristic of the young to be skeptical. However, it is my wish that you shall see for yourself before it is too late.”’ |

*‘Tf it is your wish that I remove the bottle, you have but to order it removed.’’

’ “T wish it removed, certainly, but I shall not order it done, for, unless you obey the wizard implicitly, you shall sorrow for leaving the bottle.’’

“But why have you prejudice

against the bottle?’’


“‘T think it bewitehed, Arturo.”’

‘Phat does not strike me true.’’

“‘T have but to say again,’’ said the elder in resignation, ‘‘that you do not know Messer Searlatti.’’

A light dinner was served the two. After the repast, the young duke rode from the camp in the direction of the city of Mantua, whither he was bent on an amorous adventure. His lackey accompanied him the greater part of the distance, which was not far, but at the city gates the Duke Gonzaga dismissed him, bidding him wait until his return. The lackey aceordingly posted himself, watching his master enter the city with an uneasy mind.

The moon had already disappeared behind the western horizon when the Duke Gonzaga reappeared at the eity gates. He had left the chamber of his mistress at the hour, three glasses of sand after the midnight. For some distance he rode in silenee, the bottle at his belt makimg an unpleasant jangling noise against the trappings of his horse. The lackey rode sleepily at his side.

Suddenly the duke drew rein. The lackey did likewise. He observed out of a half-opened eye that his master had been drinking heavily. The duke began to finger the bottle meditatively, mumbling to himself the while. The frightened lackey eaught a curse on Messer Scarlatti, at which he crossed himself, expectimg at any moment to see that person come down upon the duke in a ‘shape horrible beyond words. However, nothing happened.

The duke again urged his horse forward. But he stopped again. This time he held the bottle up


against the sky and shook it vehemently. He half raised his rapier to strike the neck from the bottle, but thinking better of it, lowered it again. He shook the bottle until the paper moved so swiftly that it could hardly be seen. The lackey at last begged him to desist, vowing that evil would come upon him. The duke, his senses heavy with wine, struek at the servant, and sent him from him. The lackey retired at some distance to watch the procedure of his master, for he knew that the old duke would hold him responsible im a measure for his son’s good.

Just. within the lines of the camp the duke fought off his fear and struek the neck from the bottle. He reached in to get the paper, but he never took hold of it. Suddenly he felt someone at his neck. He fell from his horse, struggling furiously. His lackey came up at breathless speed. When he reached the body of the young duke, now prone upon the ground, but still feebly struggling, there was no one else in sight. Yet the duke struggled! The lackey held his lantern elose to the agonized face of his master. Close by lay the note that had fallen from the bottle.

He stood helplessly by while his master died. After a moment great livid marks appeared on the neck of the dead duke. The lackey, frightened out of his wits, stood for a space undecided. At last he seized the note and ran with it to the old duke. He told him all that occurred, while the Duke Gonzaga read:

I feared you would not like my bottle imp, Highness, Duke Gonzaga; so I cautioned you accordingly.

ScARLATTI.

OLD sweat broke out on the brow of the city editor of the Seattle Evening Herald as he

stared at the notice which he had just

picked out of the copy basket on his desk. It read:

WHISPERING DEATH desires that the Herald cease all mention of his activities. You know what it means to disobey!

Instead of a signature a red zigzag line crossed the bottom of the sheet.

Paul Whitrock knew. Three times within the past week men had been found dead, horror written indelibly on their faces, hands clapped over their ears as if to ward off some hideous sound, bodies that had stiffened in their writhing. And this same death faced him, if he chose to continue to devote the headlines to the Whispering Death’s murders.

Whitrock realized that the unceasing publicity which had been given these murders had been annoying the Death, and that this politely

“His servant found him wrapped around the instrument with that terrible look on his face.” 3

7 ,

7 John /mpola

worded note was his way of ending the annoyance. No doubt, he reasoned, the other papers of the city would receive similar notices.

Not a single clue had been unearthed by frantic police officials; not a trace which might lead to the capture of the criminal who threatened the lives of any within his reach. A wave of terror, nationwide in its extent, seemed imminent.

The telephone bell jangled near the desk, rudely jerking the editor out of the revery into which he had fallen. Almost automatically he reached for the instrument, picked up the receiver, and said ‘‘city desk’’ into the transmitter.

The semi-hysterical voice of Chet Mason, city editor of the Morning Tribune, came over the wire. ‘‘Say, Paul,’’ it quavered, ‘‘have you seen the gag notice sent out by the Death? I just got it in with my copy, although heaven knows how it got there.’ ‘is

684 WEIRD

Whitrock tried to sympathize, but the other editor rushed right on. ‘‘And he says if we don’t shut up he’ll turn that sound loose in this office!’? Mason’s voice ended in an upward wail.

So he had been right about the Death’s warnings to the other papers. He started to reassure the Tribune editor without feeling a whit of selfassurance himself, but again Mason interrupted.

“But Paul,’’ he quavered, ‘‘ what are we going to do? If we don’t print the news we get fired, and if we do we get killed.’’

Whitrock said nothing, and his opinion of Mason, never exceptionally high, sank still lower. Mason, he decided, was a baby, to be thus frightexed by a threat. But ’way down in his heart, he admitted to himself that he ‘*wasn’t so darned sure he wasn’t scared too.’’ He hung up.

The door of the editorial rooms langed open and Tom Tennant, chief cf detectives, rushed in. He was a large man, and towered over the editor as he unburdened his thoughts in as short a time as possible.

‘‘What’s this Mason told me—that the Death is trying to gag the press? I came over here rather than to the Tribune office, because Mason is erying out loud, scared to death. What’s the dope?”’

Whitrock’s gray eyes appraised the detective, mutely wondering whether it was safe to tell all he knew. He decided it was, although sometimes, for the interests of his paper, he retained information from the detective. Finally he spoke.

“Yes, it’s all straight enough,’’ he said. ‘‘But just a minute, until I give the story to a reporter, and then I'll tell you what I know.’’

He turned and spoke to one of the men in the office. ‘‘Here’s a note which the Whispering Death left in the copy basket a little while ago. pate. it up for the home edition, will you?’

TALES

The reporter nodded and turned away.

“*Oh, Ted!’’ Whitrock had an afterthought. The reporter turned. ‘‘If you don’t want to write that story, T’ll do it myself.’’

The reporter grinned and sat down at his typewriter, as though in derision of the Death and his threat.

2 tg waited patiently for ten minutes while the editor cleared up the copy for the next edition. He was accustomed to Whitrock’s habits, and knew that to interrupt him when he was working was not liked.

Finally the editor sent the copy boy scampering off with the last of the copy and turned to the detective. ““Yes, Chet called up just before you came and nearly flooded me with tears over the phone. He’s all worried about being killed.’’ He grinned.

‘“So am JI,’’ laughed the detective, ‘“‘but I’m not broadcasting it to all the world.’’ Then he became serious. ‘‘Well, what did he say to you?’’

‘‘He said ‘Shut up’.”’

“Just that?’’

““Words to that effect. And he added that we know what to expect if we don’t obey. Well, we know!’’ Whitrock was grim, and his square chin set itself as for a physical encounter. ‘‘ Any new cases?’’ he asked.

‘*Yeh! You know old Kinkaid, the old tightwad who hates everyone, including himself? Well, the Death got him last night.’’

“Old Kinkaid?’’? Whitrock was ineredulous. ‘‘Why did the Death pick on him? Why, he was so mean it was a kindness to kill him.’’

‘‘T know it,’’ returned the other. ‘**But listen! Guess how it was done.’’

**Don’t know. In the usual way, I suppose.”’

*““No, by telephone! His servant found him all wrapped around the instrument, with that terrible look on his face, hands tight over his ears. He had a devil of a time to get the receiver out of the old man’s hand.’’

WHISPERING DEATH

‘“‘But Tom,’’ snapped the newspaperman, ‘‘he can control the city in a day by using the telephone.’’

“Don’t I know it! But Paul, I think I’ve got a solution. You said once that you knew a professor up at the university who was a wizard on sound.’’

‘‘Sure—old Professor Lathrop, in the physies department.”’

‘*Maybe you could get him to arrange a wave trap or some sort of attachment which would make these phones safe. It’s a cinch we need something like that !’’

““That’s a good idea, Tom!’’ Whitrock was enthusiastic. ‘‘I’Il drop in on him as soon as I go off duty. I live out that way, you know.”’

‘*Good!’’ Tennant glanced at his watch. ‘‘Wow! I’ve got to go. You see this prof and I’ll drop around in the morning and hear what he has to SAvaw:

He turned at the door. ‘‘Oh, say,’’ he said, ‘‘don’t say anything about old Kinkaid yet. I want to work in peace for today.’’

“All right,’’ agreed the editor, “but give us the break when you’re ready.’’

‘‘Sure!’’ said Tennant, and swung out the door.

pe WHITROCK was busy—watching a girl. Not that he did this habitually, for he had scarcely known anyone of the opposite sex, except in his work, since he had been graduated from college six years before. And now, at twenty-seven, he caught himself looking at a girl. He was puzzled, and a little ashamed of himself, but he watched the dainty movements of the girl just the same. And he had a queer little feeling of elation as he did it.

Her name was Murvia Murray—at least that was what Professor Lathrop

had called her when he introduced

his assistant to the newspaperman. ‘“*Murvia.’’ He liked the name. And her hair was golden, and her throat


was so white behind the jet black of the beads she wore .. .

UL and so,’’ rambled the protessor, his attitude reminiscent, ‘‘I gave fifteen failures in that class that year a

Paul was annoyed. Confound old Lathrop anyway! He seemed so irrelevant alongside the—well, the slim white fingers and the twirl of a pleated skirt as the girl moved here and there in filing away examination papers. Once she stopped, and glanced in his direction. He got a glimpse of blue — intensely blue — eyes, and he immediately wanted to see them again.

«<____and do you remember what grade JI gave you that quarter, Paul?’’ the professor continued.

Paul was deep in a problem, wondering if that dimple always appeared when she smiled. Then it came dimly to his consciousness that Lathrop had asked a question.

“Yes, I’m quite sure of it,’’ he said vaguely. The professor continued his discourse, plunging into new fields, and neither he nor the newspaperman realized the incongruity of the answer.

Whitrock wondered if she liked canoeing, horseback riding, camping, and it tickled him to think that she probably would. And he liked the way her hair was bobbed in back, so that when she turned her head quickly it rose up and then settled easily back into place.

and so,’’ dragged on the professor, ‘‘I almost invented this Whispering Death sound myself.’’ Paul felt exasperated, but wait—what was it that Lathrop had said: that he had nearly invented the sound himself? He faced the professor sharply.

““Do you mean to say that you’ve been trying to invent that heathenish sound yourself?’’ he asked vehemently.

**Surely.’’? Lathrop stretched himself in his chair. ‘‘You see, Paul, if that sound were put to proper use by


any government as powerful as ours, it would be the means of effecting world peace.’’

““How?’’ The newspaperman was interested, but doubtful.

‘‘Well, given a nation that would not try to dominate the world with it, then such a nation could force the others into peace. Now do you see why I’ve striven to develop the idea?’’

Whitrock had an _ inspiration. “‘Say,’’ he said suddenly, ‘‘if you know so much about the death sound, maybe you know how to prevent its use.’’

The professor shook his head. ‘‘No, I don’t,’’? he said slowly, ‘‘sinee it penetrates through almost any kind of protection which the ears can be given. That’s one of its chief values: there is no available defense. But if you care to listen I can give you an idea how it developed, and maybe you can better understand what the Death is. You are familiar enough with radios to know the squealing sound produced by certain ways of tuning?”’

Whitrock nodded.

“‘And you know that by tuning this way the sound can be made higher and higher until you cease to hear it? Well, that sound doesn’t stop simply because you can’t hear it. The average human ear can handle up to 30,000 vibrations per second.

““Several years ago,’’ he continued, ‘some German scientists discovered that by producing these sound waves to the frequency of from 100,000 to 110,000 per second, they could kill fish and rodents with the sound. Then they calculated that if they could inerease this frequency to about 200,000, they could destroy human life with the sound.

“T began work at once, and without difficulty produced the frequency necessary to destroy life in the rats and fish, but when it came to producing sounds of higher frequency


I was blocked. And there I was when this criminal began his work.’’

Whitrock was disturbed. Somehow he didn’t like the tone of the professor’s voice; it seemed as though Lathrop was secretly laughing at him, that he was no longer the same lighthearted, sincere old Lathrop he had known in college. He downed the thought, but it troubled him nevertheless.

Suddenly he remembered his mission to Lathrop’s office, and asked, ‘*Suppose that this sound could be transmitted over the _ telephone; would there be any way of stopping it?’

Lathrop shook his head. ‘‘No, because all the diaphragms in existing phones are sensitive enough to respond to the sound. But I really doubt that the Whispering Death will try that. Phone calls are too easy to trace.”’

Paul started to tell the professor what had already happened, but the suspicion or unnamed doubt of a moment before made him pause. He decided to say nothing, since Lathrop had already given him the information he wanted. But he didn’t like that leering look in the professor’s eyes at all. He looked at his watch, and rose to go.

‘*Well, Paul,’’? Lathrop said, ‘‘if there is anything I can do to assist in getting the Whispering Death, just call on me at any time.’’ And again Paul had the impression that he was the object of the professor’s silent laughter.

H: TURNED into the hallway, and nearly collided with the girl, Lathrop’s assistant, emerging from another door, which, Paul knew, led into the assistant’s room. She smiled as he came forward, hat in hand.

‘‘Leaving so soon?’’ she asked. The dimple mocked him, but ‘he liked it: *‘Ordinarily when Professor Lathrop gets a friend in there he keeps him until morning.’’

WHISPERING DEATH

Paul grinned. ‘‘He couldn’t have kept me with a gun. I’ve got much work to do tomorrow.”’

They walked down the hall and left the building by a side door. She turned to a walk which led to the street-car line.

‘“Please,’’ there was entreaty in his voice, ‘‘won’t you let me take you home in my ear? It’s right here.’’

She dimpled adorably, and mischievously. ‘‘Ordinarily I don’t accept rides from strange men,’’ she protested.

‘‘We’ve been introduced, haven’t we?’’

“*Yes, but that doesn’t mean I know you very well.’’

‘‘Well,’’ and he was parrying her thrust, ‘‘I don’t know you very well either, so we’re both of us taking a chance. ’’

She laughed merrily, and proceeded with him to his coupé. He helped her in, tucked a robe about her, and took the wheel. She appraised him gravely while he started the motor and swung away from the curb, then lowered her eyes as he turned to her.

‘‘Are you in any particular hurry to go home?”’ he queried.

“No. Why?’’

“‘Because I think we silght enjoy Lakeside Boulevard tonight. Want to?”’

*‘T’d love to——’’ She snuggled down comfortably in her corner of the seat.

He drove rapidly across the campus and swung on to the boulevard that skirted the lake. Then he drove more slowly, and half turned so that he could see her face. She had laid her books on the far side, and so now she was close to him.

“*‘T was surprized when I found out tonight that Lathrop had a girl for his assistant. He usually chooses men, doesn’t he?’’ Then he kicked himself mentally for being personal. But to his relief, she appeared not to notice it.

“*Yes, he does,’’ she said, ‘‘but I


became interested in this high frequeney sound of his when I was a senior last year, and so he arranged that I win the fellowship in this department. But he maintains that I have become quite valuable to him.’’

“‘T ean see an excellent reason for that,’’ said Paul. She chose not to recognize the compliment.

“‘But now I suppose he’ll choose someone else for next year, because this Whispering Death discovered the sound Tefore he did, and he seems to be doing everything ‘he ean to forget that he had anything to do with rye

Whitrock started at her direct mention of the Death. Somehow that had been so remote from his thoughts since he had left the campus.

““But why were you interested in the sound?’’ he asked.

‘*Mostly to get the fellowship, at first.’ She smiled wistfully. ‘‘You see, Father met some reverses, and that meant no more school for me unless I did something. So I did this. But I’m really interested now, and I regret that Professor Lathrop has given up interest in the sound.’’

“‘He seemed very much interested when he talked about it to me,’’ said Whitrock.

“‘T’m afraid he did that for your special benefit, then,’’ she said. ‘‘But the work that has been done on the sound in that laboratory in the past three weeks I’ve done myself.’’

“You!’’ Paul was amazed.

‘*Yes. You see, I’ve decided that if I can discover it myself I ean work out the way to prevent it; that is, so that I may protect all these people from getting murdered by the Death.”’

**You’re working on it now?’’

‘Yes, but I haven’t dared tell him about it because he has been very irritable lately, and speaks to me in dreadful language. I suppose, though, I’ll have to stand it, at least until June, when I get my master’s degree.”’


The car came to an upward grade, and Paul leaned forward to shift gears. hand, felt for an instant the velvety smoothness of the skin, and then, almost shamefacedly, shifted to the lower gear and sat upright.

He picked up the thread of their conversation awkwardly. ‘‘Then you know quite a bit about the sound yourself?’

She smiled. ‘‘I wouldn’t care to boast about it, but I think I know as much about it as he does, plus what I’ve learned in these last three weeks myself.’’

‘*What is that?’’

*‘T found some apparatus which he had constructed, and I put it together again. If the experiment works, as I think it will, I’ll have discovered the sound myself !’’

Whitrock gasped. The idea that this chit of a girl could be so close to discovering what the old master of physies had failed to find seemed impossible.

““You’re sure?’’ he asked ineredulously.

*“‘T will be tomorrow afternoon. I’m going to try it on a rabbit, and if he dies, then I will have discovered the secret of the Whispering Death.’’ She hung her head for a moment, and Paul thought he heard her sigh.

““You seem sad about it,’’ he ventured.

““Not about discovering the sound, but—well, the rabbit is a special pet of mine, and it’s hard to sacrifice him, and—really, I—I can’t even afford to get guinea-pigs, and they’re what I really need for the experiment.”’

Paul wondered what he should do under the circumstances; then the solution struck him. ‘‘Please,’’ he said, ‘‘mightn’t I help? Can’t you let me bring the pigs and come over to watch the experiment?’’ He was eager. ‘‘I’m awfully interested.’’

She pondered the question a moment, then nodded. ‘‘I suppose I shouldn’t, but I’d do anything to save

In doing so, he touched her -


my bunny.’’ She smiled her gratitude. Then, ‘‘My, but it must be late! I didn’t realize how time must have passed. What time is it?’’

Whitrock glanced at his watch. ““Not quite one o’clock,’’ he said hopefully. ‘

“T must go home. Mother won’t be worried, because I often work late, but I’ve got to be rested for tomorrow, when the experiment takes place.’’

He agreed, and swung the car around toward a street leading into the section of the city from which they had come.

A few minutes’ drive brought them to her home, a quiet cottage-like structure on a little side street. He helped her from the ear, and escorted her to the door. She fitted the key to the lock; then, instead of turning it and opening the door, she turned to him.

“Thank you so much for the drive and for volunteering the guinea-pigs. The drive helped a lot, because I didn’t know until this afternoon that I had even a chance to discover the sound, and I was pretty much excited when I met you in the hall.’’

And then I’m coming out to the campus tomorrow afternoon?’’ Paul reassured himself.

““Yes,’’ she said, ‘‘at three, in my room, the one from which you saw me come out tonight.’’

He nodded. Then she turned to go in, had a thought, and turned again to him.

‘“Please, I wasn’t eavesdropping, but I heard Professor Lathrop say that telephones couldn’t be protected against the death sound. He must not have been thinking, because a thick diaphragm in the receiver wouldn’t respond to the rapid vibrations and would make the sound ineffective.’’

‘By Jove, you’re right! I7ll eall the telephone company in the morning and have the diaphragms installed

WHISPERING DEATH

at once. You see, there has already been one case of telephone killing.’’

‘‘Not really!’’ She was aghast. ‘“Then it’s all the more important that you do it.’’

He pursued the thought. ‘‘Why?’’ he asked.

“*Because,’’ she said softly, as she stood just within the door, her face shining in the half-light of the street lamp, ‘‘because I don’t want anything like that to interfere with your coming out to the campus tomorrow, Paul.’’

Wace was up to his ears in

work the next morning when Tennant strode in, bristling with news. Again he waited until the editor had finished the rush news, and then broke out:

“‘The Death got another one last night. Got a man down in the slums, broke, ragged, and wretched. That’s the fourth or fifth time he’s killed someone who was of no possible harm to anyone except himself. Confound it, it begins to look as though this Whispering Death were trying to kill off all the miserable people in Seattle. Most of his victims are miserable either because they are extremely rich or extremely povertystricken.’’

The detective stopped from lack of breath, and the editor inserted a question. ‘‘Then you’ve found no motive in the Kinkaid case?’’ Somehow Whitrock felt that Tennant was being left behind in the chase for the Whispering Death. What Murvia had told him the night before seemed of supreme importance.

He paused abruptly in his thoughts.

Murvia. What right had he to eall her that, even in his thoughts? Well, after all, hadn’t she called him Paul? Tennant was rambling on with the details of the Kinkaid ease. mer and no possible motive; that is, a reasonable one. All his affairs were straight to a dot, nothing miss689

ing and nobody, so far as I know, wanted to kill him. Why the Death mixed into it is more than I can understand.’’

Whitrock broke in. ‘Are you ready to release the news about Kinkaid?’’

“Oh, sure! Go ahead when you’re ready. I can’t find out anything about it, and the public may as well have the news.’’ Paul made a notation on his story sheet, then spoke again:

““T found a way to prevent the Death’s using the telephone. The telephone company just supplied me with a heavier diaphragm for my receiver here.’’ He unscrewed the receiver and showed the disk to the detective.

The other nodded. too,’’ he said.

Whitrock evaded the detective’s next question regarding what he had found’ out about the death sound. ‘‘Old Lathrop said that nothing could be done—that the sound penetrates almost any kind of protection. And he explained to me what the sound was. He knows all about it, because he tried to invent it himself.’’

The telephone bell rang imperiously. Whitrock answered it, to hear a steely voice come over the wire:

“Ts that you, Whitrock?’’

““Yes.’? Paul was puzzled.

“‘Hear this!’? A: deep rumbling sound came to the editor’s ear. A peculiar vibrant quality in it made the sound almost pleasant, like an opiate to the nerves—soothing, thrilling, compelling the hearer to continue listening. In response to the feeling, Paul unconsciously pressed the receiver closer and closer to his ear. Then through the sound came the same steel-cold voice:

“This is the Whispering Death! It holds you! You can’t get away! Feel it? Feel it? The higher the sound the closer you are to death! You have disobeyed and this is the penalty!’?’

**T’ll get some,

690 WEIRD

The sound grew shriller and shriller; it began to pain the editor’s ears, but he pressed the receiver tighter to his ear. He stiffened in his chair, his face twisted and writhed torturously, his arm began to encircle his head—to protect his ears——

Tennant, who had been looking elsewhere, whirled about and took in the situation at a glance. A single bound earried him to the editor’s side; he jerked the telephone away from Whitrock, jerked the cord in two, and threw the instrument far across the room, virtually tearing the receiver from the ear of the editor. Whitrock fell forward to the floor, unconscious.

Tennant reached the water cooler with a bound, picked it up, and, returning, emptied its contents on the editor. Whitrock gasped, rose to his knees, but would have fallen again had not one of the reporters caught him as he went down. ...

HEN Whitrock recovered consciousness he was lying, fully dressed, on the bed in his apartment. Tennant was standing anxiously near the bed, watching for the first sign of returning intelligence on Whitrock’s face. He sighed with relief when the newspaperman opened his eyes.

‘“Gosh, Paul! I thought you had gone under, but that new diaphragm in the receiver saved you. The phone operator heard the sound, too, but she died. We don’t know whether she was listening in, or whether the sound just carried over on the switchboard. Man! You don’t know how lucky you are.”’

Paul looked around the apartment, still dazed. In a sort of detached manner he realized that he had heard the Whispering Death and that he had survived it. His thoughts were clearing up too slowly to satisfy him. Suddenly he sat up.

‘“What time is it?”’ he snapped.

“Oh, about two o’clock,’’ answered the detective, leisurely.

TALES

‘‘T’m going out,’’ declared the editor as he started toward the door. ‘“Where’s my car?’’

“*Tt’s outside, but you’re not going anywhere in it.’? The detective looked adamant.

“But I’ve got a date!’’

““T don’t care what you’ve got, you’re not going out!’’

**Oh, all right.’’ Paul sat down in‘ an easy chair. ‘‘I guess you’re— right—I feel a little dizzy.’’ He teetered in his chair. Tennant propped him up, and ran into the Eee to get some water.

As soon as Tennant was aut of sight, the editor walked quietly to the door and slipped out. He ran down the hall to the door, spotted his car in front of the building, and, reaching it in a few leaps, got his emergency keys from the lining of the roof of the ear.

The coupé started with a jerk, just as Tennant dashed wildly out of the door, intent on stopping the editor. Whitrock paid no attention, but, disregarding speed laws, drove rapidly to an address at which, he had ascertained in the morning, he could obtain the guinea-pigs.

It was a matter of moments until Paul was speeding back to the city again, headed for the campus. He drew up behind the physies building just as the three o’clock bell was ringing, ending the previous hour’s classes. Students, hurrying home from their classes, stared curiously at the young man who, bearing a large box under his arm, ran down the hall to the sound department.

Murvia smiled at him as_ she opened the door in response to his knock, but he saw the seriousness which she felt under the smile. ‘“H’lo,’’? she said. ‘‘You’re just in time. I’ve got it all ready to try the experiment.’’

Murvia had given her hand to him when he entered, and he suddenly beeame conscious that he was still holding it, and that his grip on it

WHISPERING DEATH

was not gentle. He glanced at her, but her eyes were lowered. Then she extracted her fingers from his grip slowly, and turned to the apparatus.

It consisted of a remade radio cabinet, with the top opened and laid back. Paul got an impression of a great number of cogs, gears and ‘wheels. Attached to the table was a large crank, which turned a sprocket wheel on the cabinet.

She turned her attention to the box which he had brought, claimed, ‘‘Oh, you brought two of them! I’m so glad, because it makes the experiment so much more certain.’’ He placed one of the tiny animals in the sound-proof box which adjoined the radio eabinet, and, acting under instructions from Murvia, closed the cover and sealed it air-tight.

‘“You see,’’ she said, ‘‘there’s air enough in there for him to live until after we’ve admitted the sound into the chamber, and if the experiment works he won’t suffer anyway. Besides, we must protect ourselves against the sound.’’ Paul remembered his experience of the morning, but decided to tell her nothing about it yet.

She explained about the crank. **Professor Lathrop has a large electrie motor which would have turned the machine very well, and I know he isn’t using it just now. But this morning when I asked for it, he was very angry and swore at me, and then when I started to go into his laboratory, he chased me out of the office. So I suppose I’ll have to ask you to turn the erank.’’ She was apologetie.

“T’ll do it gladly,’’ he said, and grasped the crank. ‘‘ All ready?”’

‘““Whenever you are.’’ Her eyes were shining with excitement, but she displayed no signs of nervousness.

Whitrock began to turn the crank, slowly, because he found it heavy.

and ex-.


Evidently he was setting in motion a heavy flywheel of some kind, necessary to attain a high speed to ereate the lethal sounds. Under his efforts, the machine turned faster and faster.

A dull roar came through the thicknesses of the box, and Paul reeognized with a start the same silky smoothness, the irresistibility, of the sound which he heard in the morning. But as the sound gradually became higher and higher, it faded away until the only evidence of the creation of the Whispering Death sound was Paul’s efforts and a sort of slithering whisper, coming very faintly to their ears.

Murvia raised her hand, and the newspaperman stopped turning, but the momentum of the machine carried the erank around and around with it, gradually slowing down.

The dull roar came back into evidence, getting lower and lower. Finally the crank turned no more, and Murvia signaled to Paul to open the sound chamber. ‘‘I can’t,’’ she explained simply.

He loosened the thumb - screws which held the cover down, turned it up, and looked inside. The animal was quite dead, all tied up in a grotesque knot on the bottom of the chamber. It resembled the human bodies left by the Whispering Death, for its tiny paws were holding the pointed ears down, warding off the sound.

He turned to the girl, but she had already seen what the results had been. The thrill of success shone in her eyes, and she smiled faintly. ‘‘It —it’s worked, Paul,’’ she said.

‘‘Murvia!’’ The name came from him almost naturally, and she smiled at its use. ‘‘Murvia! It’s a success, and you’ve won the first step to saving the country from the threat of the Whispering Death!’’

“‘T know it, and I think I’m the happiest person alive for that reason,’’ she whispered. She raised her frank blue eyes to his, and he dwelt

692 WEIRD

in their glory. Surely, he thought, blue eyes like that had never existed before.

‘“‘ShaH we make sure with the other animal?’’ he asked.

She nodded. ‘‘Yes, but I'll get Professor Lathrop to watch it. I’m sure he’ll be pleased. She turned to the door to the laboratory, and, finding it locked, ran into the professor’s office, Whitrock following close behind. She tried that door to the laboratory, and it swung open. She loked inside, and started back.

oe at his desk was the aged professor, and on that desk was practically the duplicate of the apparatus - with which Murvia had a moment

before discovered the death sound.

When she opened the door, he was

busy placing a telephone into the

sound chamber of the apparatus, a. cynical smile curling his lips into an

evil grimace.

He looked up to see Murvia standing amazed at the door, and a look of a cornered beast came to his features, twisting them into a bitter expression of suspicion and deathly hatred. In an instant he had reached the girl, and, seizing her in a tentacle-like grip, had dragged her inside the room, desperately trying to close the door behind her. But Whitrock, who had been standing behind the girl, whirled and put his foot forward so as to prevent the closing of the door; then, with an almost superhuman effort, he wrenched the door from the hands of Lathrop. He plunged headlong into the laboratory, and the door slammed in his wake.

He looked up to find that the professor had released the girl and jumped to the side of his instrument, grasping in one hand the handle of an electric switch. One glance from the newspaperman sufficed to tell him that a large electric motor was belted to the apparatus. Another

TALES

glance showed him unerringly that Lathrop was insane. =

The professor laughed—a_ long, taunting, jeering laugh. Paul stepped in front of Murvia as though to shield her, but the action drove the maniac into further bursts of jeering laughter.

‘‘Yes, sure,’’? he chortled, ‘“‘get in front of her, as if that will do either of you any good! The Whispering Death penetrates everything, and [ am the Whispering Death!’’

Paul saw that it was out of the question to reason with Lathrop, and began looking around for ways to escape. He was interrupted by the taunting laugh.

“You can’t get away this time, Whitrock,’’ the maniac sneered. “You got away this morning, else you wouldn’t be here, but you'll be dead when you leave this room, because I’m going to kill us all. Only the three of us know about the Whispering Death’s secret, and in a@ minute I’m going to close this switch. The motor will turn over the machine to make the death sound, and we'll all die together.’’

Paul looked at Murvia, over his shoulder. She was strangely calm, but her eyes were wide. He put his hand back, and she slipped her tiny fingers into his palm trustingly. He turned to Lathrop again just as the maniac began to speak:

‘‘Yes, that’s what you get for interfering with other people’s affairs,’’ he chattered shrilly. ‘‘Just as I got around to making all the unhappy people in the world happy, you break in and force me to end it all. Well, you’ll die with me!

“No, no, no,’? he continued in spite of the newspaperman’s at-, tempted protest. ‘‘I know what you’re going to say—that you will arrange for me to escape if I let you go, but no, no, NO!

“The greatest boon to mankind since the world began,’’ he rambled on, ‘‘dies with me tonight. The rich

WHISPERING DEATH

who were so rich that they were miserable, and the poor who were so poor that they were miserable—all of them I’ve made happy with the Whispering Death. <And_ they’re happier dead, they are, they are!

‘*Four years I struggled to invent the sound waves, and then a few weeks ago I found it. And I was going to give it to the gevernment— but what if Thad? They would have conquered the world, and _ everyhody would have been more miserable. So I began to make people happy myself.

“‘T carried it around in a grip, and when I found miserable people I let them hear the sound, and they bhecame happy. And it was fun, fun, fun! Then the newspapers began to make a row, and I laid my Death notices where they would be found, and they didn’t stop. And I decided to make you, Whitrock, an example. But you escaped! You won’t again!’’

Lack of breath forced the maniac to cease his tirade for a moment, and Whitrock began to consider ways of preventing the professor’s throwing the switch. Suddenly, when the situation looked most gloomy, Paul noticed that the maniac had a ielephone headset on his head, and that the loose end of the cord dangled at his knees. Simultaneously Whitrock realized that the sockets for plugging them were still on the old radio cabinet from which the professor had fashioned his death-sound apparatus. Perhaps—Paul became hopeful—perhaps to plug in the headset would cut out the sound chamber, which corresponded to the loud speaker on the radio. At any rate, it was the only hope, Paul realized. But it might be too late.

The insane man was holding up a watch. ‘‘See that second hand on that watch?”’ he questioned.

Whitrock nodded, although he couldn’t see the hand.

“Well, in ten seconds I’m going to close this switch and then we'll


all be dead, and happy! I’ll count, and when I say ‘ten,’ then goodbye.”’

Paul looked grim, and squeezed Murvia’s hand reassuringly, but the firm pressure of her hand showed that she had given up hope. Hastily Paul looked around for something which he might insert into the socket

* to cut out the sound. He found nothing, but to plug in the earphones which the maniae was wearing would cause him to hear the sound, and kill him.

“One! Two! Three!’’

‘“Maybe,’’ thought Paul, ‘‘I ean keep the switch open!’’

“Pour! Five!’’

Paul stiffened, and a determined look came into his eyes. The professor looked gleeful, utterly happy.

““Six! Seven!’’

Paul looked desperately around for something else to plug in. He didn’t want to kill Lathrop like that.

‘Hight! Nine! Ten!’’

Lathrop closed the switch with a jerk of his hand, and simultaneously with the whiz of the electric motor there came to their ears the dull roar of the Whispering Death. The insane man settled back in his chair, secure in the thought that all was over.

Instantly Paul was upon him, and grasping the metal plug on the end of the earphone cord, fought to put it into the socket on the cabinet. Maybe, he thought, he could cut out the sound, and then tear the phones from Lathrop’s head in time to save him too. The switch was out of reach.

The maniac fought hard, and the pain in Paul’s ears became intense. Swiftly the tone of the Whispering Death was becoming higher and higher, threatening at any time to reach that point where it would snuff out their lives.

One final desperate lunge netted Whitrock nothing. The insane man fought like a lion at bay. Paul felt

694 WEIRD

himself becoming dizzy, and lashed out wildly with his fists at Lathrop. The old man sank under the blows, and the newspaperman, as though it -were his last act alive, put the plug into the socket.

The Whispering Death sound stopped instantly, and Paul, recovering quickly, endeavored to wrest the headset from the ears of Lathrop. Then he whirled and opened the switch.

But the Whispering Death had come to Professor Lathrop. Already the stiffening arms encireled his head, clamping the earphones tight

TALES

against the organs, and fight as Paul would, he could not tear the reeeivers away. The man who had been Professor Lathrop writhed for a moment, his features twisted into a horrible grimace; then he fell back on the table. The grimace seemed a frozen picture of the maniacal laughter with which he had taunted them a few moments before.

Paul turned to the girl, and she came toward him slowly.

**Murvia!’’ he said uneertainly.

Her eyes were soft, and warm.

**Paul!’’ she said.

His arms closed around her.

A Blood-chilling Tale Is This

THRICE DEAD

By ALSTON LOVEJOY

HEN Seurtin told me that only three people would attend the funeral, I did not consider it an uncommon event. If had been accustomed to viewing the dead for some years, since I am a physician, so I went without any amplified sense of sorrow, repugnance, or terror. The corpse had been a distant relative of Scurtin’s. I had not intimately known him; in fact I had met him only twice at social events of no special importance.

He had died, I think, of some form of liver disease, the exact character of which I am not fully aware. I had not been informed of any remarkably distinguishable traits accompanying the death, and I believe that none of us regarded the then coming funeral as one of distinction. But certainly, there came events that appeared to me

not only horrible, but seemed at that time inexplicable. I am often haunted in my dreams by the unforgettable terrors'that confronted me that night, and funerals unnerve me whenever it is my duty to attend them.

The time set for the funeral was the unreasonable hour of seven p. m., according to the wishes set forth in the will of the deceased. I had often noticed that people who had seemed in no way mentally unbalanced during their lives, sometimes left their last wishes in a nowise sensible fashion. However, I had beeome used to

_ this sort of thing and I saw no reason

to be unduly startled. I had indeed attended two funerals, which were otherwise uneventful, at the unearthly hour of midnight.

So it was that after a rather strenuous day I went wearily to the underTHRICE DEAD

taking parlors, which were located on the west side of town. It seemed to me at the time that it had been foolish to have the eorpse embalmed there, because the burial was not to take place in the cemetery adjoining the west side, but was to be on the directly opposite, or east side, which was four miles from the place chosen. On top of all this the dead man had left another wish: That his body should be transported to the cemetery by coach and that the horses should proceed not faster than a walk the full distance.

I had become angry when I had Waited at the parlors for over half an hour, for I was tired and irritable and sorely in need of sleep. Finally, when I had begun to wonder if I had mistaken the date of the funeral, I heard footsteps approaching and my friend Seurtin appeared with the other member of the trio—a negro minister.

He was to recite the services, which had been composed by the deceased, for exactly twenty-one minutes. At that time he was to stop upon whichever part of the paragraph, sentence, or word he happened to be uttering at that moment. I was rather startled when Seurtin informed me that this highly intelligent negro gentleman was directly related to himself and to the deceased through their late uncle. At this point my interest was aroused and I forgot my ennui in my anticipation of an unusual event.

T WAS eight-thirty o’clock when we

entered the small room in which the corpse lay. The evening was becoming quite dark, and to my utter amazement there was but one light in the room: a small, dim light attached to the altar for the minister to read by. The corpse lay with its feet toward the pulpit, the light striking the soles; and to this day I can not interpret my feeling at the sight of those feet pointing skyward and just a bit awry.


The dim light fell unevenly through the room, making the corpse’s face appear exceptionally white, and lined in prominent planes of flesh and bone, stiff with death. The hands, by some unfortunate turn of destiny, had become black!

The coffin was plain, except that the entire top was composed of glass. The room was small and reeking with the odor of stale flowers. These things, and the blankly exposed. corpse, gave one an ugly impression of stark death.

The room was so small that Seurtin and I were compelled to sit within two feet of the coffin. As he sat near the head, I followed suit and sat just opposite him. He looked rather badly shaken. I had a very drawn feeling mingled with an indefinable emotion closely resembling a terrible loneliness. It seemed unendurably quiet; but now that time has passed, I remember having heard passing automobiles, feet pattering on the sidewalk, the sound of children’s voices and laughter in the distance.

T became extremely impatient while the tall negro minister stood unmoving for fully five minutes before his voice broke the silence. He looked huge and distorted in the dim light.

When he at last spoke, his voice startled me. It was deep and vibrant. He chanted, rather than recited. His slow voice, half singing, half droning, echoed ominously through the small room.

I have here a copy of the sermon. Perhaps when you have reflected upon what I have said, you will be able to understand my feeling as I listehed to this:

Into the dark chasm. Into the dark chasm. Into death I ride. Slowly. Slowly. Sweetly slow. Into the dark chasm.

Out of the light I go. Out of the light. And into the Dark, sweet flowers, I float passionately. Into the Dark, sweet flowers, I float passionately. Into the Dark.


Farewell. Farewell. Things that my hands have touched. Things that my lips have touched. Farewell. Things that my eyes have fondled. Things that my tongue has tasted. Farewell. Things that my cheek has brushed. Words that my lips have discarded. Farewell. Farewell. Women my heart has loved. Books that my brain has loved. Farewell. Hope, farewell. Farewell. Farewell.

Phantoms have haunted me. Phantoms have taunted me. Phanioms have haunted me. Phantoms, I come to thee, phantoms that haunted me. Deep in the dark night’s breast phantoms came unto me. They are to be caressed by my dead memory. Phantoms that taunted me, farewell to all of ye. Devils were some to see. They made life Hell for me. Come, Death, I wait for thee. Ride me upon the sea of all Eternity. oy all Eternity. All of Eternity.

Seurtin was weeping now without control. I was hypnotized by the negro’s voiee. I felt as though I were freezing. I reasoned the thing out to myself and was, for a few more momeuts of that everlasting sermon, pacified. At this pomt I glaneed at the body and I would have sworn that I saw one of the hands move!

I looked away from the body, still with that uncontrollable feeling that it had moved, and I tried to wateh the negro. He spoke without apparent emotion. His eyes were almost closed. Still, out of the corner of my eye I seemed to see the shadow behind those hands move weirdly in the dim light. Perhaps I was simply afraid to look; I know that I did not want to. It took every ounce of my will-power to fix my eyes toward the negro. Finally, like a child frightened m a dark bedroom, E closed my eyes. Alas! to no avail. I could hear it move. A rustling sound. A sound of dead hands against glass. With that mysterious sixth sense with whieh we have been endowed, I eould feel the presence of another being in the room.


The sermon beeame more and more the singsong wail of the negro hymnal as it progressed. The minister continued to chant:

Over my head. Over my head. Over my head there swings a light. There is a light over my head. Under my feet. Under my feet. Fhere is a cloud. There is a cloud under my feet. A heavenly cloud—under my feet—so weary. Oh-h-h-h so weary. Yes—so weary.

Though the earth shall not quake as the—es .

Time of all aes for a tremor! I thought my imagination must be getting the best of my better reasoning, for I heard the lew, faint rumble of the light California’ earthquake. I opened my eyes and saw the room moving about me. ‘The corpse was shaking about in the coffin, its feet rattling a tattoo against the sides of the casket. Seurtin’s eyes were closed tightly ; his fists were clenehed, but his mouth was grim with a determination to conceal his real emotion. The negro seemed peculiarly unmoved as he continued the sermon. He did not change his voice, expression or poise, but continued that same singsong, nerve-splitting chant.

HE rest of the sermon I did not

elearly apprehend. It was a tormenting groan during the events that followed the earthquake. Shades of the invisible world poured icy perspiration over my whole being, while a whirlwind of heinous events sapped my strength and reasoning. I acted by main foree, hardly knowing what I was about. Time beeame a fourth dimension of Hell.

I saw the corpse’s knees begin to bend as it drew its feet up like a sleeping man. But unlike a_ living being it was covered with glass instead of yielding cloth. To my mexpressible horror I saw the glass bending from the slow, diabolical foree beneath it. Seurtin leaned forward and peered closely at the rigid face within

THRICE DEAD

the coffin, a face no whiter now than his own. I realized that the glass would soon break. I covered my “face with my arms to protect myself from the glass. It broke with a double report, crack! crack! like shots from a revolver, louder in the smallness of the room.

I immediately uncovered my face while the pieces of glass fell elattering to the floor. Seurtin’s eyes were wide with bewilderment and shock. His mouth hung loosely open. His ehin had a long cut across it from the flying glass. He was evidently spellbound—hypnotized by the thing—for he did not move, but glared with a terrible stillness. The negro was unmoved during this time and continued with his services as though he were addressing an attentive congregation.

I assumed a calm countenance, and arising I went to Seurtin’s side to pacify him, but as I approached I joined him in his terror.

The eyes of the corpse were wide open, apparently staring into the eyes of Seurtin. The hands of the corpse were slowly rising. Black hands sprinkled with bits of sparkling glass. Hands that seemed to move by some unseen power rather than any living foree.

Seurtin and I stood side by side bending horrified over this monster. We were like men adhered to the floor in the dread clutches of nightmare. The room seemed hot and oppressive. Scurtin’s face was streaked with perspiration and tears, mingled with blood from the gash on his chin.

The left hand of the corpse came toward him in a painfully slow, steady, puppet-like motion, The right hand lifted skyward with the fingers spreading apart fiendishly. The left hand was spreading out full in Scurtin’s face! I was paralyzed as I saw it closing upon his cheeks. Scurtin sereamed, ‘‘Oh, God!”’

The realization of what was happening came to me vaguely. - I was dazedly aware that I must do some697

thing. I, a physician, would not be expected to stand stupefied while a man was driven into hysterics, mto madness.

T leaped to Seurtin’s back, eaught him by the shoulders, and pulled him to one side. The corpse did not slacken its inhuman grip. I threw both arms around Scurtin’s body and tried to wrest him from the thing. The coffin toppled from its bier ! The corpse rolled out, still clinging to the now unconscious Scurtin. It hung by one hand from Scurtin’s face. It hung with its feet drawn up, its eyes staring ahead.

My abhorrence was beyond reason as I seized that suspended monstrosity by the wrist and tried to release its grip. It had the strength of a vise. I laid Seurtin on the floor and taking the clutching hand in both of mine I broke every finger of it. Each one popped loudly.

The negro was still chanting as I dragged Scurtin from the room to revive him. As I closed the door behind me I heard the few closing words:

. . and Death descends not until the bod y is in the gra

The words ceased abruptly as a distant chime struck the closing time.

. Twenty-one minutes had passed!

HEN Scurtin had been revived I

returned to the room where the negro had remained. He was lifting the corpse into the coffin. He completed the job of drawing its arms back into position and placing the lid over it. I noticed that his expression of philosophical calm had _ not changed. He was about to leave the room when he turned to me.

‘‘fiven an earthquake can be a blessing,’’ he said softly.

I was about to answer that I had supposed earthquakes to be a curse rather than a blessing, especially since the most recent one. Before I could find words hot enough for a reply the negro answered his own puzzle.

“The short moments involved in the excitement following the quake,’’ he


said, ‘‘were just sufficient to allow me to eliminate one phrase in that accursed sermon. It seems that the man suspected: Brother Seurtin, most absurdly to be sure, of some hideous plot against him. What the plot could have been I can not imagine, but the phrase that I omitted prophesied a most gruesome revenge on Brother Scurtin—strangulation !’’ “‘Tmpossible!’’ I eried.

‘“‘Tmpossible, according to the phrase, under only one condition,’’ he replied. ‘‘It‘declared that ‘only supernatural intervention can save him who has heard this eurse’.’’

Before I could answer he had left the room. I heard him walking about outside, speaking to the horses as he backed the carriage up to the doorway. I glanced quickly about, thrust my hand into my pocket, gripped my jack-knife. I opened it, eyed the long, glittering blade. I had used it in an emergency case once. It was sharp. Down the thin blade I ran my thumb lightly. I winced as a drop of blood leapt to life.

The lid of the dark box had not yet been fastened.

8 as the long ride to the cemetery the sky clouded with huge,

black shadows. Great drops of rain

suddenly pattered on the carriagetop. They brought reality. pacified.

When we returned to town we drove directly to Scurtin’s house, and

I was

WEIRD

TALES

Seurtin immediately went in. The © negro remained a moment with me.

“*Doetor,’’ he asked, ‘‘what would you name as the exact reason for what happened tonight ?’’

‘‘Simply muscular contraction,’’ I answered, remembering that brevity of speech is a joyously deceptive virtue.

“So I thought,’’ he continued, “but the visible events betrayed higher understanding. I have, no doubt, committed an unforgivable atrocity tonight. Confession to you is the one way that I can unload my soul. Can you keep this secret?’’

“‘Surely,’’ I answered. There was a long pause.

‘““Well, perhaps one of your profession could hardly understand the feeling that overeame me. I was cut to the soul. I had a sense that there . was life—another life—in that room —do you understand? And then you left—left the room. The dead man— how ean I put it?—ever explain myself?—I thrust a kni—he is twice— dead.’? The negro had finally broken under the strain. He turned his face from me and sobbed softly.

‘‘Say no more,’’ I whispered. My hand erept to my pocket and fingered my own knife uneasily.

“Doctor, I am sorry——’’ he began.

“There is no need to be,’’ I interrupted. He lifted his face and I saw his expression of surprise as I continued. ‘‘The man is not twice dead— but thrice.”?

By

E.E.BE

GENS

NSON

PROLOGUE

Y FRIEND Lionel Bailey understands the works of Mr. Kinstein, and he reads them

with the rapt thrilled attention that more ordinary people give to detective stories. He says they are so exciting that he ean not put them down: they make him late for dinner. It may be owing to this unusual mental conformation of his that he talks about time ‘and space in a manner that is ocedsionally puzzling, for he thinks of them as something quite different from our accepted notions of them, and tonight as we sat over my fire hearing a spring-gale of March bugling outside, and dashing solid sheets of rain against my window, I had found him very difficult to follow. But though he thinks in “terms which the average man. finds unintelligible, he is always ready (though with an effort) to quit the


- “[ heard a long straining gasp for breath.”

austere heights on which he naturally roams, and explain. And his explanations are often so lucid that the average man (I allude to myself) can generally get some idea of what he means. Just now he had made some extremely cryptic remark about the real dimensions of time, and of the palpable incorrectness of our conception of it: but rightly interpreting the moaning sound with which I received this, he very kindly eame to my aid.

““You see, time, as we think of it,’’ he said, ‘‘is a most meaningless convention. We talk of the future and the past as if they were opposite poles, whereas they are really the same. What we thought of as the future a minute ago or a century ago, we now see to be the past: the future is always in process of becoming the past, The two are the same, as I said



“But they aren’t the same,’’ said I, rather ineautiously. ‘‘The future may become the past, but the past never becomes the future.’’

Lionel sighed.

“A most unfortunate remark,’’ he said. ‘‘Why, the whole of the future is made up of the past: it entirely depends on it; the future consists of nothing else but the past.’

I did see what he meant. There was no denying it, so I tried something else.

‘A slippery slidy affair altogether,’’ I said. ‘‘The future becomes the past, and the past the future. But luckily there’s one firm spot in this welter, and that’s the present. That’s solid: there’s nothing wrong with the present, is there?’’

Lionel moved slightly in his chair: an indulgent, patient movement.

“Oh, dear; oh dear,’’ he said. ““You’ve chosen as your firm solid point the’most shifting and unstable of all. What is the present? By the time you’ve said ‘This is the present,’ it has slid away into the past. The past has got some sort of real existence, and we know that the future will blossom out of it. But the present hardly ean be said to exist at all, for the moment you say that it is here it has changed. It is far the most elusive part of the phantom which we eall Time. It is the door, that is the most that ean be said for it, through which the future passes into the past. Yet somehow, though it scarcely exists, we can see from it into the past and into the future.’’

I felt I could venture to contradict that.

“‘Thank heaven we can’t,’’ I said. “*Tt would be the ultimate terror to be able to see into the future. It’s bad enough sometimes to be able to remember the past.’’

He shook his head.

‘‘But we can see into the future,’’ he said. ‘‘The future is entirely evolved out of the past, and if we knew everything about the past, we


should equally know everything about the future. Everything that happens is merely a fresh link in the chain of unalterable consequences. The little we know about the solar system, for instance, makes it a certainty that the sun will rise tomorrow.’’

“Oh, that kind of thing,’’ said I. ‘‘Just material, mathematical deductions.’

“‘No, all kinds of things. For instance, I’m sure you know the certainty that we all have now and then, that somebody present is about to say some particular definite sentence. A few seconds pass, and then out it comes precisely as we had known it would. That’s not so material and mathematical. It’s a little instance of a very big thing called clairvoyance. ’’

**T know what you mean,’’ I said. ‘“‘But it may be some trick of the brain. It isn’t a normal experience.”’

‘‘Bverything is normal,’’ said Lionel. ‘‘Everything depends on some rule. We only eall things abnormal when we don’t know what the rule is. Then there are mediums: mediums constantly see into the future, and to some extent everyone is a medium; we’ve all had glimpses.’’

He paused a moment.

“And there is such a simple explanation,’’ he said. ‘‘You see, we’re all existing in eternity, though, just for the span of our life-time, we’re also existing in Time. But there’s eternity outside Time, though the mist of material things usually obscures it from our vision. Now and then the mist clears, and then—how shall I express anything so simple?—then we look down on Time, like a little speck of an island below us, quite clear, future and past and present, and awfully small. We get just a glimpse, no more, and then the mist closes round us again. But on these occasions we can see into the future just as clearly as we can look into the past, and we ean see not only those who have passed outside the mist of material phenomena, whom we call ghosts,

THE BED BY THE WINDOW

but the future or the past of those who are still inside it. They all appear to us then as they are in eternity, where there is neither past nor future.”’

T suddenly found that my grip on what he was saying was beginning to give way.

‘*That’s enough for one night,’’ said I flippantly. ‘‘The future is the past, and the past is the future, and there isn’t any present, and ghosts may come from what has happened or what will happen. I should like to see a ghost out of the future. . . . And as you’ve had a whisky and soda in the immediate past, I feel sure you will have one in the immediate future, as it’s the same thing. Say when.’’

* * j= $%« =*

ees off into the country next day in order to make amends for a couple of months of wilful idleness in London by hermitizing myself in a small village on the coast of Norfolk, where I knew nobody, and where, I was credibly informed, there was nothing to do: I should thus have to work in order to get through the hours of the day. There was a house there, kept by a man and his wife who took in lodgers, and there I proposed to plant myself till I had got through these criminal arrears. Mr. Hopkins had been a butler, and his wife a cook, and, so I was told by a friend who had made trial of their ministrations, they made their inmates extremely comfortable. There were a couple of other folk, Mr. Hopkins had written to me, now staying in the house, and he regretted he could not give me a sitting-room to myself. But he could provide me with a big double bedroom, where there was ample room for a writing-table and my books. That was good enough.

Hopkins had ordered a ear to convey me from the nearest railway station, six miles distant, to Faringham, and a little before sunset, on a bright windy day of March, I came to the village. Though I had certainly never


been here before I had some odd sense of remote familiarity with it, and I suppose I must have seen and forgotten some hamlet which was like it. There was just one street lined with fishermen’s houses, built of rounded flints, with nets hung up to dry on the walls of small plots in front, and a few miscellaneous shops. We passed through the length of this, and came at the end to a much bigger, threestoried house, at the gate of which we stopped. A spacious square of garden separated it from the road, with espaliered pear-trees bordering the path that led to the front door: beyond flat open country stretched away to the horizon, intersected with big dikes and ditches, across which I could see, a mile distant, a line of white shingle where lay the sea. My arrival was hooted on the motor-horn, and Hopkins, a prim dark spare man, came out to see to my luggage. His wife was waiting inside, and she took me up to my room.

Certainly it would do very well: there were two windows commanding a view of the marsh eastward, in one of which was set a big writing-table. A fire sparkled on the hearth; two beds stood in opposite angles of the room, one near the second window, the other by the fireplace in front of which was a large armchair. This armchair had a footstool, under the table was a waste-paper basket, and on it one of those old-fashioned but convenient contrivances which show the day of the month and the day of the week, with pegs to adjust them. Everything had been thought out for comfort, everything looked spotlessly clean and eared-for, and at once I felt myself at home here.

‘‘But what a charming room, Mrs. Hopkins,’’ I said.. ‘‘It’s just what I want.’’

She moved away from the door as I spoke, to let her husband enter with my bags. She gave him one swift ugly look and I found myself thinking ‘*How she dislikes him!’’ But the im702 WEIRD

pression was momentary, and having elected to sleep in the bed by the fireplace, I went downstairs with her for a cup of tea, while her husband unpacked for me.

When I came up again, the unpacking was over, and all my effects dis- ~ persed, clothes laid in drawers and cupboards, and my books and papers neatly stacked on the table. There was no settling down to be done: I had stepped into possession of this pleasant room, as if I had long lived and worked in it. Then my eye fell on the little adjustable contrivance on the table for displaying the current date, ‘and I saw that this one detail had escaped the vigilance of my hosts, for it marked Tuesday, May 8th, instead of the true date, Thursday, March 22nd. I was rather pleased to observe that the Hopkinses were not too perfect, and after twisting the record back to the correct date, I instantly settled down to work, for there was nothing to get used to before I felt at home.

A plain and excellent dinner was served some three hours later, and I found that one of my fellow-guests was an elderly sepulchral lady with a genteel voice who spoke but rarely and then about the weather. She had by her on the table a case of Patience cards and a bottle of medicine. She took a dose of the latter before and after her meal, and at once retired to the common sitting-room where that night and every other she played long sad games of Patience. The other was a ruddy young man who confided to me that he was making a study of the minute fresh-water fleas that infest fresh-water snails, for which daily he

dragged the dikes. He had been so —

fortunate as to find a new species which would undoubtedly be ealled Pulex Dodsoniana in his honor. Hopkins waited on us with soft velvet-footed attention, and his wife brought in the admirable fruits of her kitchen. Once there was some slight collision of crockery in her tray,

TALES

and happening to look up I saw the glance he gave her. It was not mere dislike that inspired it, but some quiet deadly hatred.

Dinner over, I went in for a few minutes to the sitting-room where the sepulchral lady was sitting down to her Patience and Mr. Dodson to his microscope, and very soon betook myself upstairs to resume my work.

The room was pleasantly warm, my things laid out for the night, and for a couple of hours I busied and buried myself. Then the door of the room, without any inquiry of knocking, silently opened, and Mrs. Hopkins stood there. She gave a little gasp of dismay as she saw me.

**T’m sure I beg your pardon, sir,’’ she said. ‘‘I quite forgot: so stupid of me. But this is the room my husband and I usually occupy, if it is not being used. So forgetful of me.’’ I AWOKE next morning after long

traffic with troubled nonsensical dreams to find the sun pouring in at the windows as Hopkins drew up the blinds. I thought that Mr. Dodson had come in to show me a collection of huge fleas that battened on Patience cards, or rather that would be abundant there on Tuesday, May 8th, for, as he pointed out, there were none there now since the present had no existence. And then Hopkins, who had been bending over the bed by the window, apologized for being in my room, and explained that he could hate his wife more intensely here: he hoped that I had not been disturbed by him. Then there was the crack of some explosion, which resolved itself into the rattle of the up-going blind, and there indeed he was. .. .

I was soon out of bed and dressing, but somehow that farrago of dreamstuff concocted out of actual experience, hung about me. I could not help feeling that there was significanee in it, if I could only find the elue, and it did not, as is usual with dreams, fade and evaporate with my

THE BED BY

waking: it seemed to retreat into hidden caves and recesses of my brain and wait in ambush there till it was ealled out.

Then my eye fell on the daterecorder on my table, and I saw with surprize that it still registered Tuesday, May 8th, though I would have been willing to swear that last night I had adjusted it to the correct date. And with that surprize was mingled a faint and rather uncomfortable misgiving, and involuntarily I asked myself what Tuesday, what May 8th was indicated there. Was it some day in past years, or in years yet to come? I knew that such a question was an outrage on common sense; probably I imagined that I had screwed the eylinder back to the present, but had not actually done so. But now I felt that this date referred to some event that had happened or was to happen. It was a record or some mysterious presage out of the future—like a railwaysignal suddenly hoisted at night at some wayside station. The line lay empty, but presently out of the dark- “ness would come a yell and a roar from the approaching train. . . This time, anyhow, there should be no mistake, and I knew that I moved the date back again.

fDi days passed slowly at first, as is their wont in new surroundings, and then began to move with everaccelerating speed as I settled into an industrious routine. I worked all morning, turned myself unwillingly out of doors for a couple of hours in the afternoon, and worked again after tea and once more till round about midnight. My task prospered, I was well, and the house most comfortable, but all the time there was some instinet bidding me leave the place, or, since I successfully resisted that, to get through with my work as soon as might be and be gone. That strong tonic air of the coast often made me drowsy when I came in, and I would slip from my desk into the

big armchair and sleep for a little.

THE WINDOW 703

But always after these short recuperative naps, I would wake with a start, feeling that Hopkins had come silently into the room as I slept, and in some inexplicable panic of mind I would wheel round, dreading to see him. Yet it was not, if I may so express it, his bodily presence which I feared, but some psychical phantom of him, which had sinister business on hand in this room. His thoughts were here—was that it?—something in him that hated and schemed. That business was not concerned with me; I seemed to be but a spectator waiting for the curtain to rise on some grim drama. Then, as this confused and fearful moment of waking passed, the horror slipped away, not dispersing exactly, but concealing itself and ready to emerge again.

Yet all the time the routine of the well-ordered house went smoothly on. Hopkins was busy with his jobs, doing much of the house-work, and valetting and waiting at table: his wife continued to ply her admirable skill in the kitchen. Sometimes its door would be open, as I went upstairs after dinner, and I had a glimpse of them as I passed, sitting friendly at their supper. Indeed I began to wonder whether that gleam of dislike on the one side and of sheer hate on the other, which I fancied I had seen, was not some fiction of my own mind, for if it was real there would surely be some betrayal of the truth, a voice raised in anger, and a sudden shrill answer. But there was none: quietly and efficiently the two went about ‘their work, and sometimes late at night I could hear them pass to the attic-floor above, where they slept. A few footsteps would sound muffled overhead, and then there was silence, till in the morning I, waking early, heard the discreet movements begin again, and soft footfalls pass my door on their way downstairs.

This room of mine, where for three weeks now I had been so prosperously at work, was growing a haunted and


terrible place to me. Never once had I seen in it anything outside the ordinary, nor heard any sound that betokened another presence except my own and that of the flapping flames on the hearth, and I told myself that it was I, or, more exactly, some fanciful sense of the unseen and the unheard that was troubling me and causing this ghostly invasion. Yet the room itself had a share in it too, for downstairs, or out in the windy April day, or even just outside the door of the room, I was wholly free of this increasing obsession. Something had happened here which had lett its mark not on material things, and which was imperceptible to the organ ‘of sight and hearing, the effect of which was trickling not merely into my brain, but filtering through it into the very source of life. Yet the explanation that a phantom was arising out of the past would not wholly fit, for whatever this haunting was, it was getting nearer, and though its lineaments were not yet visible, they were forming with greater distinctness below the veil that hid them. It was establishing touch with me, as if it was some denizen of a remote world that reached across time and space, and was already laying its fingers on me, and it took advantage of small physical happenings in that room to encompass me with its influence. For instanee, when one evening I was brushing my hair before dinner, a white featureless face peered over my shoulder, and then with an arrested shudder I saw that this was only the reflection of the oval looking-glass on the ceiling. Or, as I lay in bed, before putting out my light, a puff of wind came in through the open sash, making the striped curtain to belly, and before I could realize the physical cause of it, there was a man in striped pajamas bending over the bed by the window. Or a wheeze of escaping gas came from the coals on the hearth, and to my ears it sounded like a strangled gasp of someone in the


room. Something was at work, using the trivial sounds and sights for its own ends, kneading away in my brain to make it ready and receptive for the revelation it was preparing for it. It worked very cleverly, for the morning after the curtain had shaped itself into the pajamaed figure bending over the other bed, Hopkins, when he called me, apologized for his attire. He had overslept himself, and in order not to delay further, had come down in a coat over his striped pajamas. Another night the wind lifted the cretonne covering that lay over the bed by the window, inflating it into the shape of a body there. It stirred and turned before it was deflated again, and it was just then that the coal on the hearth gasped and choked.

ut by now my work was completed: T had determined not to yield to the fear of any strange and troubling fancies until that was done, and tonight, very late, I scrawled a dash across the page below the final words, and added the date. I sat back in my chair, yawning and tired and pleased that I was now free to go back to London next day. For nearly a week now I had been alone in the house, and I reflected how natural it was that, diving into myself all day over my work, and seeing nobody, I had been creating phantoms to keep me company. Idly enough, my glance lighted on the record of the day of the week and the month, and I saw that onee more it showed Tuesday, May 8th. . . . Next moment I perceived that my eyes had played me false; they had visualized something that was inside my brain, for a second glance told me that the day indicated ere was indeed Tuesday, but April 24th.

“‘Certainly it’s time I went away,”’ I said to myself.

The fire was out, and the room rather cold. Feeling very sleepy, and also very content that I had finished

THE BED BY

my task, I undressed quickly, leaving

~ . shut the window by the other bed.

But the curtains were undrawn and the blind was up, and the last thing I saw before I went to sleep was a narrow slip of moonlight on the floor. I AwoxKeE. The moonlight had broadened to a thick oblong patch, very bright. The bed beyond it was in shadow, but clearly visible, and I saw that there was someone sleeping there. And there was someone standing at the foot of the bed, a man in striped pajamas. He took a couple of steps across the patch of moonlight, and then swiftly thrusting his arms forward, he bent over the bed. The figure that lay there moved: the knees shot up, and an arm came out from beneath the coverlet. The bed creaked and shuddered with the struggle that was going on, but the man held tight to what he was grasping. He jumped on. to the bed, erushing the knees flat again, and over his shoulder I saw and recognized the face of the woman who lay there. Once she got her neck free from the strangle-hold, and I heard a long straining gasp for breath. Then the man’s fingers found their place again: once more the bed shook as with the quivering of leaves in a wind, and after that all was still. The man got up: he stood for a moment in the patch of moonlight, wiping the sweat from his face, and I could see him clearly. And then I knew that I was sitting up in bed, looking out into the familiar room. It was bright with the big patch of moonlight that lay on the floor, and empty and quiet. There was the other bed with its eretonne covering, flat and tidy.

fs Pa sequel is probably familiar to most peopleas the Faringham murder. ‘On the morning of May 8th, aecording to the account given by Hopkins to the police, he came downstairs .as usual from the attie where he had -slept about half-past seven, and found

THE WINDOW 705

that the lock of the front door of his house had been forced, and the door was open. His wife was not yet down, and he went upstairs to the room on the first floor where they often slept together, when it was not being used by their guests, and found her lying strangled in her bed. He instantly rang up the police and also the doctor, though he felt sure she was dead, and while waiting for them observed that a drawer of the table, in which she was accustomed to keep the money she had in the house, had been broken open. She had been to the bank the day before and cashed a check for fifty pounds, in order to pay the bills of last month, and the notes were missing. He had seen her place them in the drawer when she brought them back. Questioned as to his having slept in the attic, while his wife had slept alone below, he said that this room had been lately occupied, and would be occupied again in a few days: he had not therefore thought it worth while to move down, though his wife had done so.

But there were two weak points in this story. The first was that the woman had been strangled as she lay in bed, full length, with the blankets and sheet over her. But if the supposed burglar had throttled her, because she had been awakened by his entrance, and threatened to raise the alarm, it seemed ineredible that she should have remained lying there with the bedelothes up to her chin. It looked as if the murder was a wanton one, and had nothing to do with the burglary. Again, though the drawer into which she had put her money had been forced, it had not “been locked. The burglar had only to pull the handle of it, and it would have opened. It looked as if the murderer had wanted to convey the impression - that he was a burglar.

Hopkins was detained, and the house searched, and the missing roll of notes was found in the lining of an old greateoat of his in the attic.


Before he suffered the extreme penalty, he confessed his crime and told the manner of its execution. He had come down from his bedroom, entered his wife’s room and strangled her. He had then forced the front door,


and, unnecessarily, the drawer where she had put her money.

Reading it, I thought of Lionel Bailey’s theory, and my own experience in the room where the murder was committed.

The Desecrated Dead Body Sought Revenge

MUMMY

By KELSEY PERCIVAL KITCHEL

HAVE always prided myself on

being a practical man; prosaic,

if you will. In the old days the boys used to call me the man from Missouri. ...

Well, so I was. I had to be shown —and I was shown. Let me tell VOUS. -eIt was in South America that the thing happened. I had been engaged by the Babylonia Copper Company to go to their mine and smelter two miles high in the Andes. Being a metallurgieal engineer and having had blast-furnace experience in the New Jersey plant, I was put in charge of the furnaces there in the desert.

At that time Babylonia was in process of growth and organization ; it was not the finished affair that it is nowadays with its hospital, married quarters, white women and a club. When I went down from New York there wasn’t a wife in camp. We men —a handful of us—lived at the messhouse and worked eighteen hours a day for seven days a week. Oh, yes, the pay was good; we would not have stayed if it had not been for the high salaries. You see, there was not a thing to amuse a chap. We were fifteen miles from railhead, living in a tiny village clinging to a mountainside that is a desert in the absolute meaning of that much-abused word. You yourself have seen so-called deserts, haven’t you? And they were usually graced with sage-brush, lizards, mosses and lichens, weren’t they? Well, the Atacama has nothing on it that may be called ‘‘life.’’ Not a thing. Rolling reaches and ridges of black, voleanie rocks and red gray sands; great salt-caked basins; leagues and leagues of alkaline dust blown westward at night by the winds pouring down from the Andes, then blown eastward during the day with the winds coming from the coast.

Yes, you have to be pretty hardboiled to keep your sanity in such a place. We worked on eight-hour shifts there at the furnaces, of course. .. . My buddy was Preston, a good scout who roomed with me and had the next shift to mine, knew his business and all that. Kellogg looked after the third shift in the twenty= four hours.

After I’d been there a year, more or less, I had naturally absorbed plenty of information about the surrounding country. I’d heard stories of the Indian burying-grounds over at Chiu-Chiu; some of the boys had managed to get leave and ride over

MUMMY

there—twenty miles of vile going through the desert. They had brought back a few turquoise beads, some pots and so forth. I had never been particularly interested in archeology, but since I couldn’t pry a vacation loose from the G. M.—and by ‘‘vacation’’ I mean a trip to port where there is a decent hotel; there’s a movie-palace, too, and you ean sit on a plaza bench and look at white women—as I could not be spared for that, I asked for, and got, a couple of days. Having nothing better to do I decided on Chiu-Chiu and the burying-ground. . I believe that one should try everything once, and it seemed a pity to go back home to New York, at the end of my contract, without being able to show some honest-to-goodness relics. And I had a notion to get a skull and have it made into a tobaeco-jar. You can tell by that how young I was.

This place was situated on the ‘ River Loa, but don’t run away with a faney picture of a meadow-fringed stream, clumps of woodland and . fields of waving grain. Nature does not work that way in northern Chile. The Loa struggles down from the snows across a region as desolate and terrible as any inferno. For untold centuries the river has been eating its way through variegated strata laid down eons ago—like the Colorado, you know. In most places the canyon is so steep and deep that no human being could tap enough water for a window-box; but in a very few places the escarpment has broken away, leaving an approach to the narrow, turbid stream. In these rare spots the aborigines have, from time immemorial, irrigated and cultivated the ground. Yes, oases, with skimpy fig and pepper-trees, some highland corn and alfalfa and small, stony patches of puny vegetables. Life is unbelievably difficult for the desert farmer there in the Andes. The huts, made of stone and mud, eluster around a squat, gray church.


Chiu-Chiu, being the seat of a posthouse on the Inca highway long before Pizarro dreamed of coming to the New World, had buried its dead for centuries in the sandy wastes outside the little sun-baked oasis.

I rode over there alone. I had always preferred doing things by myself because it seemed to me a mark of weakness to want somebody tagging along for company. ... I do not think so now, but—well, let me go on.

One does not suffer on such a ride. You and your tough pampa horse have a good drink before starting and you take along a brace of waterbottles—the horse gets a sip from your hat, you understand—and the sun blisters your parehed skin, and your eyes squint in the merciless glare, and you sneer at the deceitful mirages that mock you with their glimpses of blue lake-water. .. .

Chiu-Chiu has a hotel—at least a hovel goes by that name; but you can get a meal there and a shake-down. Being so high in the air you are not troubled with insect life, with the exception of flies.

The horse was fed and watered while I got a snack myself; then I started for the burying-ground; the hotel-keeper was a trifle reluctant to direct me but he did not hold off long. You see the farmers depended on selling their green stuff to the Babylonia Mine, and consequently nobody wanted to offend a gringo. We foreigners could arrange to secure our pumpkins and green corn from the port, you see, and the people at the oasis knew it.

ELL, I found the place and, with

a trench shovel that I’d fastened to the saddle, I began to dig after having done a little preliminary stamping which, I had been told at Babylonia, was the way to locate a grave. If there is a hollow sound underfoot, why, you have come to a likely place to dig, see?

708 WEIRD

It was interesting, that delving there in the limitless desert under the towering, snowy peaks of the Andes.

I uncovered a brown, dried figure, mummied by the arid climate. It sat with its arms wrapped around its bony knees. and with its head bent; clinging to it were fragments of ancient cloth, and from the fine sand close to it I lifted out darts, lances, arrows, pots and a few rough necklaces of shell and low-grade turquoise. No, he was not a prince; or if he was from a royal house he must have been desperately poor. God knows how long he had been squatting there, looking east and waiting for Judgment Day.

The face was a splendid aquiline one with deep eye-sockets; the brown skin was drawn ineredibly snug over the skull. Every bit of flesh was gone —dried away; there was nothing left but what is popularly termed ‘‘skin - and bone.”’

He was quite freed of sand by the time I had laid my discoveries on the erusted surface of the desert. I sat down to roll a cigarette and have a swig at the canteen, and I fell to thinking that what I was doing would be called grave-robbery if it were carried on in a modern cemetery; but if a burying-ground is ancient, why, we illogical little microbes called men name our digging ‘‘archeological excavation.”’

I had a feeling of discomfort that I could not understand; I wondered whether the long ride in the blistering heat had anything to do with it. An intuition came to me that I’d better leave that mummy alone with his worthless trumpery; but being a practical man and taking no stock in intuitions, I pulled myself together and rather half-heartedly selected the best of the trash from the sandy grave and packed it in the saddle-bag. That one hole in the ground was enough for me; I did not search for any more; somehow the whole affair

TALES

seemed a dubious sort of pleasure. I was sick of it and decided suddenly that I would change my plans and return to Babylonia that night instead of sleeping in the tambo. I knew that by going slow the horse would be able to make the trip.

I went to work at the head, which I intended using for a tobacco-jar. There was little difficulty in cracking it loose. Brittle, friable, dusty, musty, it came off in my two hands and I stuffed it in the bag along with the other things. ...

Something seemed to impel me to cover up that stark, headless thing; something seemed to tell me that I should leave him as I had found him. But I obstinately ignored these intuitions.

Back at the tambo I bought the horse a good feed and rested him but could not eat the disgusting supper of beans and tough steak offered me. As the moon rose I started for Babylonia, going slowly for the sake of the tired animal under me. There was no danger of my getting lost, as there is a fairly clear trail from the oasis to railhead; and from there I had the mine lights to guide me.

There was a curious tingling sensation all over me; I thought that perhaps I had a touch of sun; or maybe I was getting scurvy, for in those days that disease was not infrequent in the more remote miningcamps in the Andes; we could not depend with any certainty on the oasis vegetables and it was pretty hard to get fresh food up from port. I felt sick, and had delusions. I was sure I was being followed: .. . Now the natives are as gentle as sheep; they never bother gringos. In spite of that I kept looking behind me; I saw nothing but the long shadows of the rocks. It was cold. You know that at an altitude of ten thousand feet the nights are bitter even in the tropics. The sudden changes of temperature crack the rocks, night and day, and

MUMMY

in the pampa silence you can hear the soft whispering ‘‘ping’’ of flaking granite as it comes away and rolls down to the skirt of sand at the base of every boulder.

Once I was sure that the saddle-bag quivered and wriggled. The horse was aware of something extraordinary, to judge by his behavior, beeause tired as he was he acted the terrified child that night, jumping, shying, shaking.

The lights grew brighter and larger as I neared camp, and I heard the roar of the ore-crushers; for the first. time I liked the sound. It seemed almost homelike. It meant that there were human beings round about—lots of ’em! Mostly Bolivian and Chilean laborers, to be sure, but humans at any rate. I was ashamed of myself for wanting to be with my own kind; I was unreasonable, foolish, I told myself.

The corral was below the plant and I stopped there to leave the horse, which was pretty well tuckered out. I left the saddle-bags, too; common sense warned me that I should go up to the mess-house and turn in, for night was nearly gone and I needed sleep. But I did not do that. Preston was on shift at the furnaces and I wanted to get near my buddy. I wanted to tell him what a fizzle my paseo had been. He would laugh at my disappointment, perhaps, but I didn’t care. He had told me before I started that burying-grounds are not what they are cracked up to be. He had tried that sort of dissipation himself and had found it dull.

So I plowed through the heavy dust and sand, over loose stones, up to the furnaces.

RESTON was on the feed-floor; he

had one man working under his eye, a burly fellow who pulled the loaded barrow of mixed charge off the elevator and dumped the contents into the furnace mouths. As I drew near I saw Preston on the platform above


me and climbed up to him. Again I felt that there was something behind me; it was close, too; I seemed to feel two hands on my shoulders—bony, elawlike hands—and yet when I reached back quickly there was nothing there—nothing.

Preston watched me mounting the iron steps but instead of his cheery grin I saw, in the bright glare of the sputtering arclight, an odd, startled expression on his face.

‘‘What in hell?’’ he shouted as he looked over my shoulder and down toward the lower floor. I turned, too, but there was nothing unusual to be seen.

‘“‘There was somebody behind you —with the thinnest face that ever eame down the pike!’’ Preston laughed sheepishly. ‘‘Guess I must have been half asleep. I didn’t expect you back for another twelve hours— what’s the matter?’’

I was thinking of that bony face in the saddle-bag at the corral; the head that was to be cleaned. up and fashioned into a jar—bah! I shuddered while I was angry with myself for giving in to nerves. Before I could formulate an answer Preston glanced down from the feed-floor, then ran past me down the stairs, two steps at a time. Below, a laborer, tapping the copper, could not stop the flow when the ladle was full. The sparkling, iridescent stream ran wild, and Preston was needed, pronto. The Bolivian on the platform had no business to leave his job, but he caught the excitement and ran down the stairs, too, leaving me alone.

A full barrow was standing on the elevator facing the furnace-mouth. It came up just as the Bolivian ran below. There was no reason why I should stay there and do his work, but I saw that the furnace needed another charge, so I stepped across and took hold of the handles of the car, thinking to dump it and close the furnace.

710 WEIRD

Then two hands seized mine—and, man, I saw them! . . . Disembodied hands, clawlike, brown and shriveled, with each bone showing through the papery, dark skin. They clutched my wrists, holding me fast while they forced the barrow and me along with it toward the open door where the white-hot hell-fire raged.

I struggled while ‘the car trundled slowly, jerkily, straight toward the fury of the fire. The gripping hands dug dark nails into my wrists.... I have the sears yet. Look! You see them? Ten white crescents that I shall always earry. .

The barrow moved faster and I felt a cold breath on my cheek in spite of the searing heat from the open furnace. For a second I Jooked over my shoulder into the eye-sockets of a mummied head with skin drawn thin and tight over the bones; coarse, harsh hair brushed me... . I saw it, felt it—yes. .. . The barrow tipped.

I slid with it—down. ..

yo have guessed, of course, that Preston returned to the platform just in time to grab me as I fell.

A wave of unconsciousness swept over me. When I opened my eyes I was flat on my back panting like a branded steer and Preston was examining my bleeding wrists. The workmen from various parts of the building had gathered near, and one of them said, in his slurred, rapid Spanish: ‘‘Those wounds never came from the car. The patrén has had dealings with a spirit!’? He spoke

with the surety, the finality of an Indian who sees and knows, perhaps, more than we foreigners do.

Just then Kellogg, the lad in charge

TALES

of the 7-to-3 o'clock shift, came along fresh from his bed and breakfast; so Preston was free to get me back to the mess-house.

But after we were away from the furnaces I refused to go to my room. I told him everything—‘‘and I’ve got to get that thing back to its hody— now!’’ I finished.

He was a good sport; he did not laugh as many a man might have done, although I think that I could have killed him if he had sneered. No, he looked at me, nodded and remarked quietly: ‘‘I saw something behind you as you came up the steps.’’ He put his arm through mine and without another word we went to the corral; he had his own horse saddled and chose a fresh mount for me. The bags he took care of himself, remarking as he picked them up: ‘‘You can not have those relies, old man.’’

Together we rode back to ChiuChiu. I no longer felt that there was something behind me; the thing, whatever it was, moved at my side, waiting.

It did not have to wait long. The horses were fresh and we arrived at Chiu-Chiu before noon, making a wide circuit around the oasis to avoid curious villagers.

Back on the shoulders I put the head of that seated Thing and I replaced each piece of trash I had pilfered. Then we covered the mummy from the light of day. The sand was smooth when we had finished. . . .

That’s all. I’ve never had a haunted feeling since; being a practical man I won’t either, for I shall never again disturb a dead man. No, never again.

Lindenborg Pool

‘By WILLIAM MORRIS

READ once in lazy humor I Thorpe’s Northern Mythology,

on a cold May night when the north wind was blowing; in lazy humor, but when -I came to the tale that is here amplified there was something in it that fixed my attention and made me think of it; and whether I would or no, my thoughts ran in this way, as here follows.

So I felt obliged to write, and wrote accordingly, and by the time I had done the gray light filled all my room; so I put out my candles, and went to bed, not without fear and trembling, for the morning twilight is so strange and lonely. This is what I wrote. :

ES, on that dark night, with that

wild unsteady north. wind howling, though it was Maytime, it was doubtless dismal enough in the forest, where the boughs clashed eerily, and where, as the wanderer in that place hurried along, strange forms half showed themselves to him, the more fearful because half seen in that way: dismal enough doubtless on wide moors where the great wind had it all its own way: dismal on the rivers

‘ereeping on and on between the_ marshlands, creeping through the

willows, the water trickling through the locks, sounding faintly in the gusts of the wind.

Yet surely nowhere so dismal as by the side of that still pool.

“I threw myself down on the ground there, utterly exhausted with my struggle against the wind, and with bearing the fathoms and fathoms of the heavily leaded plumb-line that lay beside me.

Fierce as the wind was, it could not raise the leaden waters of that fearful pool, defended as they were by the steep banks of dripping yellow clay, striped horribly here and there eee ghastly uncertain green and

lue.

They said no man could fathom it; and yet all round the edges of it grew a rank crop of dreary reeds and segs, some round, some flat, but none ever flowering as other things flowered, never dying and being renewed, but always the same stiff array of unbroken reeds and segs, some round, some flat. Hard by me were two trees leafless and ugly, made, it seemed, only for the wind to go through with a wild sough on such nights as these ; and for a mile from that place were

no other trees. -~ a ‘ 711


True, I could not see all this at

that time, then, in the dark night, but I knew well that it was all there; for much had I studied this pool in the daytime, trying to learn the secret of it; many hours I had spent there, happy with a kind of happiness, because forgetful of the past. And even now, could I not hear the wind going through those trees, as it never went through any trees before or since? eould I not see gleams of the dismal moor? could I not hear those reeds just taken by the wind, knocking against each other, the flat ones seraping all along the round ones? Could I not hear the slow trickling of the land-springs through the clay banks?

The cold, chill horror of the place was too much for me; I had never been there by night before, nobody had for quite a long time, and now to come on such a night! If there had been any moon, the place would have looked more as it did by day; besides, the moon shining on water is always so beautiful, on any water even: if it had been starlight, one could have looked at the stars and thought of the time when those fields were fertile and beautiful (for such a time was, I am sure), when the cowslips grew among the grass, and when there was promise of yellowwaving corn stained with poppies; that time which the stars had seen, but which we had never seen, which even they would never see again— past time!

Ah! what was that which touched my shoulder?—Yes, I see, only a dead leaf.—Yes, to be here on this eighth of May too of all nights in the year, the night ‘of that awful day when ten years ago I slew him, not undeservedly, God knows, yet how dreadful it was!—Another leaf! and another !—Strange, those trees have been dead this hundred years, I should think. How sharp the wind is, too, just as if I were moving along and meeting it;—why, I am moving! what then, I am not there after all;


where am I then? there are the trees; no, they are freshly planted oak saplings, the very ones that those withered last-year’s leaves were blown on me from.

I have been dreaming then, and am on my road to the lake; but what a young wood! JI must have lost my way; I never saw all this before. Well —I will walk on stoutly.

May the Lord help my senses! I am riding!—on a mule; a bell tinkles somewhere on him; the wind blows something about with a flapping sound: something? in Heaven’s name, what? My long black robes.—Why— when I left my house I was clad in serviceable broadcloth of the Nineteenth Century.

I shall go mad—I am mad—I am gone to the Devil—I have lost my identity; who knows in what place, in what age of the world I am living now? Yet I will be calm; I have seen all these things before, in pictures surely, or something like them. I am resigned, since it is no worse than that. I am a priest then, in the dim, far-off Thirteenth Century, riding, about midnight, to carry the blessed sacrament to some dying man.

Soon I found that I was not alone; a man was riding close to me on a horse; he was fantastically dressed, more so than usual for that time, being striped all over in vertical stripes of yellow and green, with quaint birds like exaggerated storks in different attitudes counterchanged on the stripes; all this I saw by the jantern he carried, in the light of which his debauched black eyes quite flashed. On he went, unsteadily rolling, very drunk, though it was the Thirteenth Century, but he sat his horse fairly well.

I watched him in my proper Nineteenth Century character, with insatiable curiosity and intense amusement; but as a quiet priest of a longpast age, with contempt and disgust enough, not unmixed with fear and anxiety.

LINDENBORG POOL

He roared out snatches of doggerel verse as he went along, drinkingsongs, hunting-songs, robbing-songs, lust-songs, in a voice that sounded far and far above the roaring of the wind, though that was high, and rolled along the dark road that his lantern cast spikes of light along ever so far, making the devils grin: and meanwhile I, the priest, glanced from him wrathfully every now and then to That which I carried very reverently in my hand, and my blood curdled with shame and indignation; but being a shrewd priest, I knew well enough that a sermon would be utterly thrown away on a man who was drunk every day in the year, and, more especially, very drunk then. So I held my peace, saying only under my breath:

“Dixit insipiens in corde suo, non est Deus. Corrupti sunt et abominabiles facti sunt in studiis suis; non est qui faciat bonum non est usque ad unum: sepulchrum patens est guttur eorum, linguis suis dolose agebant, venenum aspidum sub labiis ecorum. Dominum non invocaverunt; illic trepidaverunt timore, ubi non erat timor. Quis dabit ex Sion salutare Israel?”

and so I went on, thinking too at times about the man who was dying and whom I was soon to see; he had been a bold bad plundering baron, but was said lately to have altered his way of life, having seen a miracle or some such thing; he had departed to keep a tournament near his castle lately, but had been brought back sore wounded, so this drunken servant, with some difficulty and much unseasonable merriment, had made me understand, and now lay at the point of death, brought about by unskilful tending and such like. Then I thought of his face—a bad face, very bad, retreating forehead, small twinkling eyes, projecting lower jaw; and such a voice, too, he had! like the grunt of a boar mostly.

Now don’t you think it strange that this face should be the same, actually the same as the face of my enemy, slain that very day ten years ago? I


did not hate him, either that man or the baron, but I wanted to see as little of him as possible, and I hoped that the ceremony would soon be over, and that I should be at liberty again.

And so with these thoughts and many others, but all thought strangely double, we went along, the varlet being too drunk to take much notice of me, only once, as he was singing some doggerel, like this, I think, making allowances for change of language and so forth:

“The Duke went to Treves On the first of November;

His wife stay’d at Bonn— Let me see, I remember;

“When the Duke came back To look for his wife, We came from Cologne, And took the Duke’s life;

“We hung him mid-high Between spire and pavement, From their mouths dropp’d the cabbage Of the carles in amazement.”

‘“Boo—hoo! Church-rat! mouse! Hilloa, Priest! brought the pyx, eh?’’

From some cause or other he seemed to think this an excellent joke, for he almost shrieked with laughter as he went along; but by this time we had reached the castle. Challenge, and counter-challenge, and we passed the outermost gate and began to go through some of the courts, in which stood lime-trees here and there, growing green tenderly with that Maytime, though the wind bit keenly.

How strange again! as I went farther, there seemed no doubt of it; here in the aftertime came that pool, how I knew not; but in the few moments that we were riding from the outer gate to the castle-porch I thought so intensely over the probable cause for the existence of that pool, that (how strange!) I could almost have thought I was back again listening to the oozing of the landsprings through the high clay banks there. I was wakened from that, before it grew too strong, by the glare

Churehhave you

714 WEIRD

of many torches, and, dismounting, found myself in the midst of some twenty attendants, with flushed faces and wildly sparkling eyes, which they were vainly trying to soften to due solemnity; mock solemnity I had almost said, for they did not seem to think it necessary to appear really solemn, and had difficulty enough apparently in not prolonging indefinitely the shout of laughter with which they had at first greeted me. ‘‘Take the holy Father to my Lord,’’ said one at last, ‘‘and we will go with him.’’

So they led me up the stairs into the gorgeously furnished chamber; the light from the heavy waxen candles was pleasant to my eyes after the glare and twisted red smoke of the pine-torches; but all the essences scattered about the chamber were not enough to conquer the fiery breath of those about me.

PuT on the alb and stole they

brought me, and, before I went up to the sick man, looked round on those that were in the rooms; for the rooms opened one into the other by many doors, across some of which hung gorgeous tapestry; all the rooms seemed to have many people, for some stood at these doors, and some passed to and fro, swinging aside the heavy hangings; once several people at once, seemingly quite by accident, drew aside almost all the veils from the doors, and showed an endless perspective of gorgeousness.

And at these things my heart fainted for horror. ‘‘Had not the Jews of late,’’ thought I, the -priest, ‘“‘been very much in the habit of crucifying children in mockery of the Holiest, holding gorgeous feasts while they beheld the poor innocents die? these men are Atheists, you are in a trap, yet quit yourself like a man.’

, Sharp one,’’ thought I, the author, ‘“where are you at last? try to pray as a test.—Well, well, these things are strangely like devils—O man, you have talked about bravery

TALES

often, now is your time to practise it: once for all trust in God, or I fear you are lost.’’

Moreover it increased my horror that there was no appearance of a woman in all these rooms; and yet was there not? there, those things—I looked more intently; yes, no doubt they were women, but all dressed like men ;—what a ghastly place!

‘QO man! do your duty,’’ my angel said; then in spite of the bloodshot eyes of man and woman there, in spite of their bold looks, they quailed before me.

I stepped up to the bedside, where under the velvet coverlid lay the dying man, his small sparkling eyes only (but dulled now by coming death) showing above the swathings. I was about to kneel down by the bedside to confess him, when one of those—thines—ealled out (now they had just been whispering and sniggering together, but the priest in his righteous, brave scorn would not look at them; the humbled author, half fearful, half trustful, dared not): so one called out:

‘*Sir Priest, for three days our master has spoken no articulate word; you must pass over all particulars; ask fora sign only.’’

Such a strange ghastly suspicion flashed across me just then; but I choked it, and asked the dying man if he repented of his sins, and if he believed all that was necessary to salvation, and, if so, to make a sign, if he were able: the man moved a little and groaned; so I took it for a sign, as he was clearly meapable either of speaking or moving, and accordingly began the service for the administration of the sacraments; and as I began, those behind me and through all the rooms (I know it was through all of them) began to move about, in a bewildering dance-like motion, mazy and intricate; yes, and. presently music struck up through ail those reoms, music and singing, lively and gay; many of the tunes [ had

LINDENBORG POOL

heard before (in the Nineteenth Century); I could have sworn to half a dozen of the polkas.

The rooms grew fuller and fuller of people; they passed thick and fast between the rooms, and the hangings were continually rustling; one fat old man with a big belly crept under the bed where I was, and wheezed and ehuekled there, laughing and talking to one who stooped down and lifted up the hangings to look at him.

Still more and more people talking and singing and laughing and twirling about, till my brain went round aud round, and I scaree knew what I did; yet, somehow, I could not leave off; I dared not even look over my shoulder, lest I should see something so horrible as to make me die.

So I got on with the service, and at last took the pyx, and took thereout the sacred wafer, whereupon was a deep silence through all those rooms, which troubled me, I think, more than all whieh had gone before, for I knew well it did not mean reverence.

T held it up, that which I counted so holy, when lo! great laughter, echoing like thunder-claps through all the rooms, not dulled by the veiling hangings, for they were all raised up together, and, with a slow upheaval of the rich clothes among which he lay, with a sound that was half snarl, half grunt, with helpless body swathed in bedelothes, a huge swine that I had been shriving tore from me the Holy Thing, deeply scoring my hand as he did so with tusk and tooth, so that the red blood ran on to the floor.

Therewithal he rolled down on to the floor, and lay there helplessly, only able to roll to and fro, because of the swathings.

Then right madly skirled the intolerable laughter, rising to shrieks that were fearfuller-than any seream of agony I ever heard; the hundreds of people through all those grand rooms daneed and wheeled about me, shrieking, hemming me in with inter715

laced arms, the women loosing their long hair and thrusting forward their horribly grinning unsexed faces toward me till I felt their hot breath.

Oh! how I hated them all! almost hated all mankind for their sakes; how I longed to get right quit of all men; among whom, as it seemed, all saeredest things even were made a mock of. I looked about me fiercely ; I sprang forward, and clutched a sword from the gilded belt of one of those who stood near me; with savage blows that threw the blood about the gilded walls and their hangings right over the heads of those—things—I cleared myself from them, and tore down the great stairs madly, yet could not, as in a dream, go fast enough, because of my passion.

IT was out in the courtyard, among the lime-trees soon, the north wind blowing freshly on my heated forehead in that dawn. The outer gate was locked and bolted; I stooped and raised a great stone and sent it at the lock with all my strength, and I was stronger than ten men then; iron and oak gave way before it, and through the ragged splinters I tore in reckless fury, like a wild horse through a hazel hedge.

And no one had pursued me. I knelt down on the dear green turf outside, and thanked God with streaming eyes for my deliverance, praying Him forgiveness for my unwilling share in that night’s mockery.

Then I arose and turned to go, but even as I did so I heard a roar as if the world were coming in two, and looking toward the castle, saw, not a castle, but a great cloud of white limedust swaying this way and that in the gusts of the wind.

Then while the east grew bright there arose a hissing, gurgling noise, that swelled into the roar and wash of many waters, and by then the sun had risen a deep black lake lay before my feet.

And this is how [ tried to fathom the Lindenborg Pool.

716 WEIRD TALES

The Eyrie

(Continued from page 582)

Writes Mrs. Edith Beadle, of Princeton, Indiana: ‘‘I wish to say a word of praise for Derleth; his Old Mark is the best story I have ever read in Weirp Tatres. It is a perfect. weird tale. Let us have more occult stories. I like all the stories I find in WrEmp Ta.zs, though, but I do not like a tale to stick too closely to reality and plausibility such as one reader praises so highly in this issue. Let the imagination have full play, I say; we have plenty of other magazines that print only real and plausible stories.’’

**T must say that you publish the most brain-awakening, hair-exercising magazine I have ever read,’’ writes Bill Griffey, of Louisville, Kentucky. ‘This is true of your WEmp TALES or I would not read it.’’

A. V. Pershing, of Indianapolis, writes to the Eyrie: ‘‘I have read several of the finest stories in the new September issue, but I have only just now gorged myself with ‘‘the’’ perfect horror tale: The Hound, by H. P. Loveeraft. Although I am still dazed, as my recovery from the frigid embrace of this charnel nightmare is not yet complete, I wish humbly to thank Mr. Lovecraft for his power to loose one from the chains of the commonplace to roam with sweet horror amid the shadowy throngs which grope their tortured ways through the endless corridors of Eternity—-without place, without time, without purpose—free from the mirage of present-day actuality.’

Readers, what is your favorite story in this issue of WEIRD TaLes? The White Wizard, by Sophie Wenzel Ellis, and Trespassing Souls, by Seabury Quinn, are tied for first place in the September issue as the current number goes to press.

MY FAVORITE STORIES IN THE NOVEMBER WEIRD TALES ARE:

Remarks

It will help us to know what kind of stories you want in Weird Tales if you will fill out this coupon and mail it to The Eyrie, Weird Tales, 840 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago, Ill.


The Gray Killer |

(Continued from page 599)

nature of our people. We have grown mighty in knowledge while retaining habits common on Earth only to the most primitive races. Cannibalism is practised universally on Horil. The Devil-God loves human sacrifice and the slaying of men and women. Hence the Devil-God came to haunt the altars of Horil, its temples and the hearts of its men and women. You of Earth would say that evil attracts evil.

And for eleven centuries I was Its high priest. On Horii the only death comes by way of cannibalism, or an occasional suicide, since we have done away with accidental death. Yet, sooner or later, men on Horil die. It is one’s turn to furnish food for others, or life grows weary—so does life equalize itself among those who might otherwise become immortal; balancing knowledge and character of destructive traits, perhaps, that the eternal plan of the great Unknown be not thwarted. ...

But this is not to the point.

At last I offended the Devil-God. I stole from his altar—well, she was beautiful, and the gray pallor of her skin was like the early dawn-light. Love is rare on Horil—but it had me in its grip.

After I had loosed her from the altar we dared not go into the City— she would have been returned to the altar, and I should have furnished a feast for the royal family. We fled into the barren places. And the DevilGod, returning to Its altar, saw us and overtook us in a great, empty, stony field. There she, the beloved, was seized and devoured before my eyes. And I——

No such merey was intended for the faithless high priest of the altar of human sacrifice. I was caught up— gently—in one of the-monster tentacles, The wide, barren plain lit by

ii.

These are copyright novels by well known writers, Printed on good paper with illustrated covers,

Thrilling Mystery Fiction! Each of these books is an exciting

mystery or detective story. Guaranteed to hold your interest.

And you get the entire set of twelve novels for only one dollar! There is no other charge.

_ Bat—you must act immediately! The suppl is limited. Right now, while you think of it, tear out this advertisement, fill in the coupon below, and return to us with $1.00 (coin, stamps or money order). The complete set of twelve novels will be mailed to you promptly, postage prepaid. eS eS FD ee A ee ee Se ee eG ey ey ee Se Seed eet ee et Geet Geet eee feet ee eee POPULAR FICTION PUBLISHING CO., Dept. 55, 840 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago, fil,

I enclose $1.00. Send me the twelve novels, poaraye prepaid, at once. This $1.00 is payment in i


White Magic

and Its Laws

A Remarkable Book LOANED To All Seekers

For Power

Whatever you imagine the power of Black Magic may be, remember there is a pure WHITE MAGIC which is as potent for good.

With the higher occult laws and secrets of § mystical power you can change the course of your life and attract SUCCESS, HEALTH, HAPPINESS and a development of mental foresight that will astound you and surprise your friends.

The Rosicrucians were the Master Mystics in all ages and today they are organized in Lodges, groups and colleges in all parts of the world. In their teachings they secretly preserve the ancient wisdom that made the Pyramid in Egypt the marvel of today and the mystery temples of Greece the most alluring places of strange achievements.

You may share in this great knowledge if # you are more than a mere seeker for mystery and magic. If you really desire to master the arcane, occult knowledge of the Masters, step by step, and become a true § Adept of the Rosicrucian Fraternity, you may have the doorway opened to you.

The Rosicrucian teachings containing the true knowledge of the mystics are never published in books. But you may borrow a book ealled “The Light of Egypt,” in which the strange story of the Rosicrucians is told and an explanation of how you may have the private teachings of the Rosicrucian Fraternity in America.

Unless you are truly sincere and anxious to gradually become developed in a superior manner, do not ask for this book. Address (not on post card):

Librarian H. W. M.

AMORC TEMPLE

Rosicrucian Park

SAN JOSE CALIF.

STEAMSHIP POSITIONS — MEN, Good pay. Experience Unnecessary. List of positions free. W. E. Arculus, Mount Vernon, N. Y.

WOMEN.

LET ME READ YOUR CHARACTER FROM your handwriting. Sample reading 12c. Graphologist, 2309-CU Lawrence, Toledo, O.

FOR 1929 NUMEROLOGICAL FORECAST, SEND 20c and birth date. Martha Sanchez, 820 Howard St., Detroit, Mich. Detailed forecast $1.00.

SONG POEM WRITERS—“REAL” PROPOSItion. Hibbeler, D-156, 2104 N. Keystone, Chicago.


the cold stars fell away beneath me— shrunk to the size of a handkerchief. An entire hemisphere of Horil lay like a saucer holding the sky—then shrank too, and fell away. My senses left me, and the breath of my nostrils. Then——

I was lying in a field on the planet Earth, which I soon recognized by the customs and types of its inhabitants, from my knowledge of schoolroom astronomy. How did I survive the journey through space? Who knows? Ask of the Devil-God, Which has— perhaps—no words for all Its knowledge.

I would not starve—I, an eater of human flesh. But here another thing must be explained. On Horil we prepare human flesh for consumption. Countless centuries ago our epicures evolved a taste for the flesh of leprous persons. Through constant usage, we have come to eat no other flesh—and by some physiological idiosynerasy, our stomachs became unadapted to other flesh. I can eat nonleprous fiesh—but it inflicts on me fearful pangs of nausea.

Our biologists, then, developed a specifie which implants a swift-growing culture of leprosy in any flesh into which it is injected—and which at the same time cures and restores all bodily tissues suffering from any other injury. So our health is safeguarded. And hence the cure of the man in 26, and the woman in 19, who had cancer. Hence the sudden development of leprosy in these patients. For they were to give me needed food.

Henee, the buried and mutilated body in the sand. I was starving, famished.

The sacrifices on the roof altar, on the other hand, were sacrifices of propitiation; but the improvised ‘‘fishhooks’ ’——

I madly hoped to snare the DevilGod I served—as men on Earth of primitive tribes, so I have heard, turn upside down the images of their saints to force them to their bidding. But I


dared more—hoping literally to hock the monster with steel barb and eable. Two sacrifices It scorned.

Driven by hunger, I had prepared my necessary feast. The girl with deep blue eyes that grew sad and terrified as they gazed on me was my first selection. Obedient to a true instinet, however, she shunned me. So I prepared the man and woman for myself—and sacrificed the children.

Then a new thought came to me. My sacrifices had been too small. They should have matched my own necessity. I determined to raise once more an altar on the roof, and to fasten to it the slain body of the girl with the sad terrified eyes.

I crept upon her as she slept at last a sleep so deep that the sense of my nearness failed to rouse her, as it had done before. I gagged her and ecarried her from her room, half smothering her as her sad eyes implored. Even to me, she was pitifully beautiful; the better to allure the MonsterGod of Space.

I conveyed her—as she wrote down —to the operating-room, and strapped her to the table—leaving free her hands, since she had little strength and could not loose herself with her body fastened flat to the table, and I had need to hasten.

I offered up my prayers upon the roof—the prayers I had made before the altars of Horil through eleven centuries.

The Being—the Monster—swooped down out of the ‘‘empty’’ skies—the “‘empty’’ skies that teem with the Unseen and the Unknowable.

I hastened back from the roof, to the operating-room. I threw myself, knife in hand, upon the operatingtable——

And I was seized from behind!

Miss Wurt at last had dared to give the alarm. No sacrifice was made upon the roof again. And I was taken


PENCIL POINTED PEN aware with ink smooth as a lead pencil -on ches; or finest paj rare hig mente mise, « skip or pian, V Won’ 't blot, scratch or leak, Makes 3 carbon copies at one time with = ee

‘ HEMISPHERE Oe THAT BALLLIKE 14. KT nim $1.0 plug

Sno ror? © es onlec. 3 sone repaid if ry if remittance occ 30 days INKOGRAPH CO. Inc. 152 Centre St., New York City

A ENT Send for SS or FREE Sales plan booke let. Sells on sight—=no investment,

\\ Send” Wo Mo ay Guaranteed.

Do you want to be

ATTRACTIVE?

~ If so, we can help you. Send name and address at onee for free literature.

THE BROTHERHOOD OF LIGHT Dept. O, Box 1525, Los Angeles, Cal.

|| Mais BOOK 10F

Explains many mystifying tricks with coins, cards, handkerchiefs, etc.,

you can do. Also contains complete catalog of Magic Tricks, Jokes, Puzzles, Escapes, Curios, and Imported Noveltics from many Foreign lands, Large assortment, lowest prices. ou will amaze and mystiry your friends! Send 10c today.

LYLE DOUGLAS,

Station A-6 Daliac, Toxas

Quit Tobacco;

Don’t try to banish unaided the hold tobacco has upon you. Thousands of inveterate tobacco have. of the ‘Keeley ‘Treatment, found dit ons easy to qui it. wta the aid

KEELEY TREATMENT FOR } TOBACCC HABIT Quick) banishes cravini

f 50 Wri Sto EAue Gok

KEELEY INSTITUTE, Dept. aes eae iinois

circs Earn Xmas Money

Write for 50 Sets St. Nicholas, Christmas Seals, Sell for 10¢ a set. When sold send us $3.00 and keep $2.00. No Work—Just Fun. ST. NICHOLAS SEAL CO., Dept. 410-W.'T., Brooklyn, N. Y.

Your character and talents revealed by Numerology and Astrology. Send full name, age and birth date and $1.00 to

Leon Brittell

Ticonderoga, N. Y¥.

1OB BAC Or SNUFF HABITS 7 SUREP OR No Pay ® Bota ateinc tae DE wea ae oe etal Haran Corte ONS

NT-17, Baltimore, Md. INVENTI WANTED — PAT

patented. If

Hartley,

‘ENTED, UNyou have an idea for sale, write Box 928, Bangor, Maine.

20 ; WEIRD TALES

NEXT MONTH

The Mystery of the Four Husbands

By GASTON LEROUX

VIVID weird mystery-story about

a gloriously beautiful woman,

her twelve suitors, and her four

husbands who were mysteriously

murdered, one after the other. A

tale of the deadly tali-tali, the

tropical poison that kills without

leaving a trace; and the little potbellied African fetish with the | fatal venom stored in his belly.

© lees new story by the author of

the famous weird novel, ‘‘The Phantom of the Opera,’’ adds another to the superb contes d’horreur by him which have appeared in this magazine. This enthralling sary will be printed complete in the

December issue of


On Sale November 1

Clip and Mail this coupon todoyt Se ee eee ee eeeeneanaaeeeeaeaaeecee 840 N. Michigan Ave.,

, DL Bnclosed find $1 for special 5 months subscription to “Weird Tales” to begin with the December issue ($1.25 in Canada). Special offer void unless remittance is accompanied by coupon.

NEO crete recente

Address

captive—though soon I shall eseape.

Comment by the Superintendent of Hospital, signed before witnesses at the request of Dr. Rountree and Marion Wheaton.

HE ‘‘Confession’’ of the unknown

man captured almost in the aet of murdering Miss Wheaton upon an operating-table in our hospital is beyond credence.

Nevertheless, I hereby testify to two things. The Killer’s entrances. and exits were made through unnoticed back windows which were not near stairs or fire eseapes. .This was possible, because he scaled the walls of the building—not climbing them, but walking up them. When his shoes were removed, his feet appeared as long segments of the bodies of serpents—and they could grip and scale any kind of w all. His feet, he said, were as the feet of all ‘human’? beings on Horil; and ‘‘on Earth’’ his shoes were made specially, and his feet were coiled within these shoes!

~ Likewise the manner of his suicide

is beyond explanation. He had been searched and was guarded carefully, of course, and he died—simply by holding his breath. No living thing on Earth has been known to do this thing, since at a certain degree of - weakness the will is replaced by automatie functions.

To the physiologic norm of no known species of Earth could the Killer conform.

Coming Soon

The BIRD- PEOPLE

OTIS Spee care KLINE

Something new in weird-scientific tales— a fascinating story located in a different angle of vibration, eery monstrosities and strange adventures.

| mate

Master!”

ne

S's at heart the trembling girl shuddered at the words that delivered her to this terrible fate of the East. How could she escape from this Oriental monster into whose hands she had been given—this mysterious man of mighty power whose

face none had yet seen? Here is an extraordinary situation. What was to be the fate of this beautiful girl? Who was this strange emissary whom no one really knew?

To know the answer to this and the most exciting tales of Oriental adventure and mystery ever told, read on through the most thrilling, absorbing, entertaining and fascinating pages ever written.

Masterpieces of Oriental Mystery 11 Superb Volumes by SAX ROHMER Written with his uncanny knowledge of things Oriental

He you are offered no ordinary mystery storat

ies. In these books the hidden secrets, mysteries and intrigues of the Orient fairly leap trom the pages.

Before your very eyes spreads aswiftly moving panorama that takes you breathless from the high places of society—from_ homes of refinement_and_luxury to sinister underworlds of London and the Far East—from Piccadilly and Broadway to incredible scenes behind idol temples in far off China—to the jungles of Malay, along strange paths to the very seat of Hindu sorcery.

11 Mystery Volumes Packed With Thrills!

Be the first in your community to own these, the most wonderful Oriental mystery stories ever published— books that have sold by the hundred thousand at i.uch

higher prices—books you will enjoy reading over and

rare PREMIUM-YOURS “action”!

This famous Gurkha Kukri of solid brass, 634” long, is an exact replica of that used by the Hindu soldiers in the World War and so eraphically described by Kipling in his stirring sto “The Drums of the Fore and Aft.” Exquisitely wrought on bot! sides in an ancient symbolical design. A rare curio to have and useful as @ letter-opener, a paper-weight or a protection on occasion. A limited quantity on hand will be given without added cost as a premium for promptness —but you must act today!

McKinlay, Stone& Mackenzie, ye Ne

over again. Handsomely bound in substantial cloth covers, a proud adornment for your table or shelf. These are the sort of stories that President Wilson, Roosevelt and other great men read to help them relax —to ae their burdens. To read these absorbing tales of the mysterious East is to cast your worries into oblivion—to increase your efficiency.

Priced for Quick Sale

Printing these volumes by the hundred thousand when paper was cheap makes this low price possibie. i Only a limited number left. Don’t lose @ minute! ? Dept.

21 B

Complete Sets Free on Approval You needn’t sendacent. Simply mail the

coupon and this amazing set will go to you INLA'

fmmediately, allcharges prepaid. If it fails Pay Yo |

to delight you, return MACKENZIE

it in ten days B 114E. 16thSt.,N.¥.

Please send me on ap- B

o

+" 10 days’ free examination, I am B «4° delighted, I will send you $1.00 promptly and $1.00 a month for only 14 months; when you receive my first payment you are to send me the Gurkha Kukri without extra Cos..

Otherwise, I will return the set in 10 days B at A your expense, the examination to cost me

nothing.

NAME... ses cccccccccccescoces

Océuipattons.issicice case vee cedeaiede siisisqesa ewes os.ciei R

Age: Over 21? .... seer eeeeeee Onder 21? .. 00 ce veee vances =e oe » FOR CASH DEDUCT 5% » ap ap ap

ere It Is? @ The Strangest Story Ever Told

Autographed First Edition

f the regular edition. Read beasts, gigantic rept les,

me. 5 d, Popular Fiction Publishing Co., Dept. K-2, 840 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago

[THE END]
