============================================================
Weird Tales
Volume 39, Number 3
Date: January 1946
============================================================
============================================================
TABLE OF CONTENTS

  1. "Except for personal experiences the contents of this magazine is fiction" by Any use
  2. "Published bi-monthly by Weird Tales, 9 Rockefeller Plaza, New York 20, N. Y" by Reentered as second-class matter
  3. "Subscription rates: One year in the United States and possessions, 90¢" by Foreign and Canadian postage extra.
  4. "English Office: Charles Lavell, Limited, 4 Clements Inn, Strand London, W.C.2, England" by The publishers are not
  5. "possession. Copyright, 1945, by Weird Tales" by Copyrighted in Great Britain. ok
  6. "ESSENTIAL PROTECTION "i: 2" by PY iporsnes phn
  7. "person, whether dué to illness or injury" by Any recognized Hospital and
  8. "any Doctor may be selected by you" by Benefits start from the first day.
  9. "Medical examination is aot necessary" by Your word as to good health of
  10. "is you—is forever poised between two worlds" by When
  11. "these statements" by Do not confuse mere dreams with the faculty to
  12. "superstition makeit" by Rise to the mastery of your zetural faculties.
  13. "start" by Opportunities ahead are
  14. "Radio Electronics" by You must get it
  15. "Mfg" by Equipme
  16. "working on an amplifier system" by This
  17. "time" by It will not interfere
  18. "Sot Diagram or circuit" by Includes
  19. "translations of all Radia symbols" by Send for this FREE book
============================================================
============================================================
by Any use
============================================================
>» §

JAMESO

A

MALCOL

by

‘CHARIOTS OF SAN FERNANDO”

‘

Invite Him?—Over My Dead Body!

Debbie was right. Chuck was a swell kid, but at a real nice party he would simply be excess baggage. Of late he had been pretty careless about a rather important thing, and the news got around fast. Lots of the girls considered a dance with him equivalent to a prison sentence. Too bad somebody didn’t tip him off*!

Are you sure that your breath isn’t on the offensive side?

Why guess about halitosis* (unpleasant breath)... why risk offending when Listerine Antiseptic provides such an easy and delightful precaution?

Simply rinse the mouth with Listerine Antiseptic before any date where you want to be at your best. How quickly it freshens... what a wonderful feeling of assurance it gives you!

While some cases of halitosis are of systemic origin, most cases, say a number of authorities, are due to the bacterial fermentation of tiny food particles clinging to mouth surfaces. Listerine Antiseptic halts such fermentation, then overcomes the odors fermentation causes. Almost immediately your breath becomes sweeter, fresher, less likely to offend.

LAMBERT PHARMACAL CoMPAny, St. Louis, Mo.

4. E, SMITH, President National Radio [nstitute Our 8lst Year of Training Men for Success in Radio


Farmer Made $600 Extra “About six months after I enrolled I started making extra money in Radio. I am a farmer and just work on radios: evenings and stormy 4d 8. That brought me a profit of $600 in the last year,””-BENNIB L. AR: RENDS, RFD

2, Alexander, Iowa.

850 a Week From Own Shop **Am making over $50 a week profit from my own shop. Have another N.R.I. graduate working for me. I like to hireN.R.L men because they know radio,’””—-NORMAN MILLER, Hebron, Neb,

Has Good Job in Broadcasting <q] “The N.R.I course gave me the strength to tackle jobs without fear of failnre, At present I 3] am a member of a the engineering staff of a large broadcasting chain.” — GH A. deSOMOV, 849 First Ave,, New York, N,

E will send you my Desson, “Getting Acs quainted With Receiver Servicing,” FRER, to show yout how practical it is to learn Radio at home in spare time, It’s a valuable Lesson, Study it—keep it—use it—without obligation}! Tells how “Superhet” Circuits work, gives hints on Receiver Servicing, Locating Defects, Repair of Loudspeaker, ¥. F. Transformer, Gang Tuning Condenser, etc., 31 illustrations. And with this lesson Tl send my 64-page book, “Win Rich Rewards in Radio” RED. It describes many fascinating jobs Radio offers, tells how IN.R.I. gives you: practical Radio experience at home with SIX BIG KITS OF RADIO PARTS I send}

MAIL THE COUPON and Iet me send you facts bout rich opportunities in Radio. See how knowia Radio can give you security, a prosperous ‘uture.

Fufure for Trained Men Is Bright in Radio, Television, Electronics

The Radio Repair business is booming NOW. There is good money fixing Radios in your spare time or own full time business. Trained Radio Technicians also find wide-open opportunities in Police, Aviation, Marine Radio, in Broadcasting, Radio Manufacturing, Public Address work, etc. Think of the boom coming now that new Radios can be made! Think of even greater opportunities wae fen and Electronics are available to the public

Many Beginners Soon Make $5, $10 a Week EXTRA in Spare Time

The day you enroll I start sending EXTRA MONEY JOB SHEETS to help you make EXTRA money fixing Radios in spare time while learning. You LEARN Radio principles from my easy-to-grasp Lessons — PRACTICH what you Jearn by building real Radio Circuits with Radio parts I send — USE your knowledge to make EXTRA money in spare time.

Find Cut What N.R.). Can Do for YOU

MAIL COUPON for Sample Lesson and FREE 64-page book, It’s packed with facts about opportunities for you. Read the details about my Course. Read letters from men I trained, telling what they are doing, earning. Just MAIL COUPON in an envelope or paste it on a penny postal J. E, SMITH, President, Dept. NM, National Radio Institute, Pioneer Home Siudy Radio Schoat, Washington 9, D. C.

{ J. E. SMITH, President, Dept. 5NM, National Radi

Mafl me BREE, without obligation, Sample Lesson and W Radio.” (No salesman will eall.. Please write plainly.): NAMB t

§ crry....

Pete ee ewe ccc were cre cceesvcwees coccecc reece rrecceces

ecccsccecvcccccers ZONE....0

GOOD FOR BOTH: 64 Page Book.and Sample Lesson-FREE

j HOW. To tRar ar a a>

bse Reecte


You Get 6 Big Kits of Radio Parts

By the time you conduct 60 sets of x= periments with Radio Parts I supply— make hundreds of measurements and adjustments—you’ll have valuable PRACTICAL experience.

SUPERHETERODYNE CIRCUIT (abovey Preselector, oscillator-mixer—first detector, if. stage, audio stage. Bring in locat and Caray stations on this circuit which you ul

My Radio Course Includes TELEVISION e ELECTRONICS


io Institute, Washington 9, D. C. 64-page book. ‘‘Win Rich Rewards in

AGE....cccceseces

tececccccoccccosce

ADDRESS 22... ccccccccccccccccceccccccccccccccscccscccccccctccce ces ccsecoces os srescccoworeccons

coe BRATE. 2... c.0racccveccccees AFR

\ Pap Ge ERD EE Gee Ee OG ee eer GE Gee oe ee ee See eee oe me eee ee ey ee) oe? ee oe eee Oe

PLEASE mention NEWSSTAND Ficrion Unit when answering advertisements

JANUARY, 1946 Cover by A. R. Tilburne


KURBAN 2-3... SS See ee 8 -. + «. « « © Seabury Quinn 8

Like Phoredl’s mecromancers, he could cast his rod upon the earth and it became a live, hissing serpent

CHARIOTS OF SAN FERNANDO.......... Malcolm Jameson 24

There are maxy unsolved mysteries in this strange world of ours— like the bizarre adventures at the Amazen’s headwaters!


SINS DOORWAY...... © 6 « « « « « « Manly Wade Wellman 38

A soul is free to enter heaven if ies burden of sin ts borne by a living person

SEED 25! fac 6 6 eS) be eee = 5s coe wees ack: onew 48

How thin is the veneer of modern learning. And how little it takes to shake one’s faith!

MR. BAUER AND THE ATOMS...........°. © Fritz Leiber 58

If a person suddenly became radio active, with all that atomic energy inside his body....

SATAN’S PHONOGRAPH.,.... 2.... + « « « © © «© Robert Bloch 62

Have you ever heard of a recording machine so damnably delicate that it captures the human soul?

PIREMAN? = ico -e- oe? cao ol soee tee ee ws ws ese « August Derleth— 66 The tombstone warned “Prepare for death and follow me!”

THE DIVERSIONS OF MME. GAMORRA....... e Harold Lawler 72

What, pray, would people be like if they were reduced to their common denominator!

ALL THE TIME IN THE WORLD.... « 6 « « « « eo Charles King 82 The mass of bloated flesh that could be ped into different shapes by kneading with the fngers—was me!

VERSE RECAPTURE. 2. 2 6 © «© © © © © © © © © ow ow fl Ch CP Lovecraft 37

SUPERSTITIONS AND TABOOS....... +.» «- Irwin J. Weill 57 THE EYRIE AND THE WEIRD TALES CLUB.... +--+. + » » « « 92

Except for personal experiences the contents of this magazine is fiction. Any use of the name of any living person or reference to actual events is purely coincidental.

Published bi-monthly by Weird Tales, 9 Rockefeller Plaza, New York 20, N. Y. Reentered as second-class matter January 26, 1940, at the Post Office at New York, N. Y.,unden the act of March 8, 1879. Single copies, 15 cents. Subscription rates: One year in the United States and possessions, 90¢. Foreign and Canadian postage extra. English Office: Charles Lavell, Limited, 4 Clements Inn, Strand London, W.C.2, England. The publishers are not responsible for the loss of unsolicited manuscripts although every care will be taken of such material while | in their possession. Copyright, 1945, by Weird Tales. Copyrighted in Great Britain. ok 173

Title registered inU. S. Patent Office.: PRCNTED IN THE U. 8. A. Vol. 39, No. 3

B.McILWRAITH, Editor, LAMONT BUCHANAN, Associate Editors

Family Protector Policy Brevides the Kind of

ESSENTIAL PROTECTION "i: 2.PY iporsnes phn for the WHOLE FAMILY! tection you'need...2 policy you

ly afford! Think af HF (Policy Available td Individuals) Provides’ a CASH INCOME! It

progects you and your family against EVERY DAY EMERGENCIES, ae stated in this generous policy! It pays CASH whether you are aid up AT HOME or ina HOSPITAL! It even pays for partiat disability pr.non-confining illness? Why sHould you cauible with the furuse? Why risk your savings? Losé no time.«,. for your own-sake.,. for the sake of yaur family, inyestigate the Family Protector Policy—at once! 4 - In addition to al} other benefits, this unusual CASH INCOME policy pravides a CASH ENGOME for every a) toyed adult member of your family, for LOSS OP ‘TYME FROM fORK, due to either illness or injury. It pays for one day or:a¢ long as 2 years, as provided, It pays whether you‘are home or in a. regular hospital! It even pays for partial disability or Hlness that does not tonfine you to your home! And that’s not all! Here are more Benefits! 2 =e Liberal cash benefits are provided fot CASH for HOSPITAL the Hospitalization of every insured

membes of the fantily, Alfows up'tg 90 days a year i Hespitat for each person, whether dué to illness or injury. Any recognized Hospital and any Doctor may be selected by you. Benefits start from the first day. {

Extra benefits are provided for

CASH for OPERATIONS Surgical operations such as Apdicitis, Fractures, Fonsils, Adenoids, Hemorrhoids, Fumor, Cancer, rostate, Female Troubles and a long list of others, as stated in policy.

‘ ’ If you Bre laid up at home because of Whe CASH for DOCTOR ness or Injury the Family Protector Policy

helps pay Doctor Bills in additiow to vther benefits.

Stree, i ae

GESTED tOTNDIVIDUAL Booed yout incaetions Pally = or FAMILY

s parents and children — may enjoy the poe elle of the Family Protector Policy. All persons in good health, §ront 3 months to 60 years of age, may be included in this policy.

NO MEDICAL EXAMINATION ~NO RED TAPE

Medical examination is aot necessary. Your word as to good health of oll applicants is enough.

INFORMATION Scefor yourself how the liberal benefits of

the Family Protector Policy can prevent } NO OBLIGATION hardship for you and your family in ime

OF need? Fate plays. no favorites—you may be next! Just mail the coupon (fos eomplete PREF details and 10 day Inspection offer. DO kT NOW?

GEORGE ROGERS CLARK CASUALTY CO. 5094 Insurance Exchange Bldg.,. Rockford, Hl.



For Alt Employed Members of the family


ALL INDEMNITY SUBSECT TO) EXCEPTIONS ond LIMITATIONS! CONTAINED IN THE POLICY


A

Please rush FREB information about the Family H E

ff Protector Policy. (Also Available to Individuals).

I Bf NAME... seo. Seis cee ee } ADDRESS 3 en eo eens H [CUTS ee ee ee | i (Zone, if any) i i i SV 8 ere | Fill in coupon. Clip and paste to 7]

postal card or mail in envelope. | ae aS a a

PLEASE noention NEWSSTAND FICTION UNIT when answering advertisements

Does Your Mind ‘Go on Night Mésstons?

ARE YOU plagued by vague remembrances when you awaken? Do strange places and faces, recollections from your sleeping state, struggle for recognition in your mind? They are not necessarily the fantasies of dreams—they may be elements of experiences as acival as your daily existence. Your consciousness —that which is you—is forever poised between two worlds. When awake, it is harnessed—limited to what you see with your eyes, hear with your ears, etc. When asleep, your consciousness may be liberated to commune with the Infinite Intelligence. It can be given a mission to perform, It can return with inspiration, with stupendous power for accomplishment that will regenerate your life.

Accept this FREE Book

Demand to know the psychological and mystical principles behind these statements. Do not confuse mere dreams with the faculty to extend your consciousness beyond the reaches of space and the borders of time, Your life is only as limited as you let fear and superstition makeit. Rise to the mastery of your zetural faculties. Let the Rosicrucians, a world-wide fraternity of thinking men and women (not a religion), tell you about these rational laws of self, Write today for a free copy of the “ Mastety of Life.” It will explain how you may receive this unique knowledge. Address: Scribe O. N. M.

She ROSICRUCIANS

SAN JOSE (amorc) CALIFORNIA SLI ET TE E RE )

PLEASE mention NEWSSTAND Fiction Uner when answering advertisements

yb. Sprayberry, one 4 of the country’s foregot? Radio Teachers.

“WA RADIO SERVICE: GUSINESS OF YOUR OWN


ADIO &! RADIO-ELECTRONIC! SERVICE ENGINEER

Now! You Can Prepare at Home in Spare Time for Amazing Opportunities Ahead in RADIO— ELECTRONICS —TELEVISION

The offer I make you here is the opportunity of a lifetime. It’s your big chanee to get ready for a wonderful future in the swiftly expanding fleld

of Radio-Electronics INCLUDING Radio, Television, uency Modulation and Industrial Electronics, Be wise! NOW’S the time to start. Opportunities ahead are tremendous. No previous experience is necessary, The

in any way with your present duties. Along with your Training, you will receive my famous BUSINESS BUILDERS which will show you how to make some nice profits while learning.

Prepares You for a Business of Your Own or Goed Radio Job

My training will give you the broad, fundamental principles so necessary as

i SUPPLY A FULL RADIO SET

for practical easy

LEARNING

Sprayberry Training Gives You Both TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE—SKILLED HANDS

There’s_only one right way to learn Radio Electronics. You must get it through simplified lesson study combined with actual “shop” practice ander the personal guidance of a qualified Radio Teacher. It’s exactly this way that Sprayberry trains you... supplying real Radio parts for learn-bydoing experience right at home. Thus, you learn faster, your understanding is elear-cut, you acquire the practical ““know-how’’ essential to a good-paying Radio job cr a Radio business of your own,: Vl Show You a New, Fast Way to Test Radio Sets Without Mfg. Equipment

The very same Radio Parts I supply with your Course for gaining pro-experience in Radio Repair work may be adapted through an exclusive Sprayberry ‘wiring procedure to serve for complete, fast. accurate Radio Receiver trouble-shooting, Thus, under Sprayberry methods, you do not have one

cent of outiay for manufactured Test Equipment which is not only expensive but scarce,

Read What Graduata Says “Ona Job Nets About $26.00’ “Since last week I fixed 7 radios, all good-paying jobs, and right now I am working on an amplifier system. This job alone will net me about $26.00, As long as my work keeps coming in this way, I have only one word to say and that is, ‘Thanks to my Sprayberry training’ and I am not afraid to boast

EN BENJAMIN, North Grosvenordale, Conn,

DON’T PUT IT OFF! Get the facts about my training—now! Take the first important step toward the money-making future of your Groams, Al} features are fully explained In my big, illustrated FRYM Catalog which comes to you along with another valuable FREB book you’ll be glad to own, Mail coupon AT ONCHI

Sprayberry Course starts right at the beginning of Radio, You can’t get lost. It gets the various subjects across in clear, simple way that you understand and remember. And, you can master my entire course in your spare time. It will not interfere

a background, no matter which branch of Radio you wish to specialize in. I make it easy for you to learn Radio Set Repair and Installation work. I teach you how to install and repair Electronia Equipment. In fact, you'll bo a fully qualified RADIO-BLECTRONICIAN, equipped with the skill and knowledge to perform efficiently and to make ® wonderful success of yourself.

“How to Read Radte Diagrams and Symbols”

such a

JUST OUT! FREE!

.... & Valuable. new book which explains in simple English how to read_and understand any Radio Sot Diagram or circuit. Includes translations of all Radia symbols. Send for this FREE book now, and along with it E will send you another big FREE book describing my RadioElectronic training.

8 Sprayberry Acactemy of Radio ‘ 8 Bf F. L. Sprayberry, President, Room 88125 Pueblo, Colorado B Please rush my FREE copies of ‘How to MAKE MONEY & 8 in_ RADIO, BLECTRONICS and TELEVISION,” and g

“How to READ KADIO DIAGRAMS and SYMBOLS.” a “pas cccccercececececcccesccccsceccccvccesAR@rcccccce P] pAMArCSS. oe eeeeeeerererrees ar}

g City, tps ccee ees eccccsesececssccns ses se SMO. ssseseesooe Bf (Mail in plain envelope or paste on penny postcard)

See eee

cote eee crea ereeeree

PLEASE mention NEWSSTAND Ficrion Unrr when answering advertisements

This amazing new shop instruction system gives you actual

experience with

Home Radio Laboratory—part of the

SHOP MET

FOR YOU—A REAL HOME LABORATORY | IN-MODERN RADIO

Your National Training Kits include equipment for hundreds of practical electronic experiments in you own ‘ home. You have the

Wenuine parts for this audio oscillator which Yeu cot to understand by building it yourself.

} ou learn Modualabeat regqueneles, signal eneration actually building this small fadio transmitter <3 with your National shop parts.

Your training outfits from National are: made up of the most modradionic

ern equipment— much of it just out of the experimental laboratory. You learn new ways of handling equipment by modern meth- @ds, Get the details by mailing the coupon.

National Training Wins: Big Jobs

You, too can share the success of National graduates, Joseph Grumich, Lake Giawatha, N. J.,

Joseph

While still a student of NaCity,

tional training, I. Wilson, of Valicio, California, writes: ‘““My pay has jumped from $52.18 a week to $72.65. and the end is mot in sight. I am proud af my National se.

You build this com~ plete modern superheterodyne receiver with the equipment that comes with your National Train< ing at no extra cost.


from ome of the world’s best established Oldest and Largest Technical Trade Schools

Send the coupon below, immediately. Learn how this sensationally improved, practical speed-up training can fit you in a short time, for the GREAT BUSINESS OF RADIO— for the NEW AND RAPIDLY EXPANDING FIELD OF FREQUENCY MODULATION (F.M.), TELEVISION AND ELECTRONICS.

This is the thoroughly proved, quick and easy speed-up method used so extensively in wartime training—endorsed by the success of National men everywhere—a system by which you study in spare time—off hours, even minutes right in your home and yet have the ADVANTAGH Of REAL SHOP BXPHRIDNCE to back you up,

Trained Radio Men Wanted

The man who really knows modern Radio is in greater demand today than ever_before— not only in Radio proper but in Television and Electronics—in Aviation, Transportation,

Communications. Good jobs are wida open, WAITING FOR YOU, in the production, operation and maintenance of modern electronic equipment—in radio stations, in hundreds of industries—in homes, theatres and studios. Good, sound training in this important fleid is absolutely necessary. And now, Nationa! Schools brings such training to you ao matter whera you live or what yeu may be doing— not only the fundamental theory but the actual experience that comes with knowing shop practice and working with real equipment— demonstrating each step with first-hand knowledge. This is truo “learning by dotng’’ —direct from the great shops and laboratories of National Schools where now developments in methods, equipment and applications aro constantly going forward. x Only National can offer you such practical treining because only National has the plant to back it up. Sample this training yourself. MAIL THD COUPON FOR A FREE LESSON.

sbocess and Check the Job You Now SECURITY Have With These FOR YOU Opportunitios in RADIO

Radio is a Biz, Sound, Well-Established BusiTelevision is just on the threshold of limitless expansion. When you havg up your uniform —when your war job folds up, will you step out proudly into an essential _established industry? Perhaps into a business of your own? Answer these questions by reading the cataJoz__ sent you FREW from National Schools. Face realities now! Fill out and mail the coupon today.

writes: “‘My latest offer was for $5,300.00 as Radio Photo Engineer, but I am doing well where I am. I am deeply indebted to Nationai.’’

Michel, Jr., Illinois, enthused with National training. I am now earning $225 a month as a radio operator and technician and $20 a week more in my shop at home.”’

Granite

writes: ‘I am

1. Finaneial Security Radio has grown from $100 miilion to $5 billion in past few years. 2. Limitiess Future predicted by over 1,800 manufacturers of equipment,

3. Television promises over half a million jobs alone— experts estimate,

4. Electronics opens wide new fieids in home end industrial

use. 5. Your Own Business with

little or no capital. Get the details, Usethe Coupon!

‘ THESE. ‘ z

LOS ANGELES 37, CALIFORNIA EST 1905 #& 4 Galles 1 MAIL: OPPORTUNITY. COUPON: FOR QUICK ACTION National Schools, Dept. 12-NS yy 6 ( Mail in envelope

St 4000 South Figueroa Street ont ert): esis. Los Angeles 37, California

Mail me FREE the books mentioned in your ad including a of your course, I understand no salesman will

NAMD....ccccccscccccccccsccccscscocccscesesss sAGhs rovccseee ADDRESS...ccceccocccccrescccccccccccsevsescsesscreveccccees,

Include your zone number ow @ oe oo oe oe ee ts es ee es es ee a) ee es ee ee oe

a a a i a a a a a L

| pee ape pe ae

PLEASE mention NEWSSTAND Fiction Unrr when answering advertisements

For nearly seventy years Tappin’s values have earned”:

a reputation for higher quality at lower prices. Our huge purchasing power and direct-to-wearer selling plan enable us to save and pass our savings on to you. That’s why, when you shop the Tappin’s way you ‘enjoy these advantages 3., 4 LGW CASH PRICES ON EASY TERMS...MGNEY BACK | GUARANTEE... RIONTHS TO PAY...15 DAYS’ TRIAL \Here’s how simple it is to own a fine diamond or watch. Simply fill in coupon below... state which article you want.°. write your name and address clearly and send the coupon to us with a brief note telling' who you are, age, occupation and, if possible, bs one or two. references. When the article is delivered, # Diamond Bridal Ensemble. you make a sinall down payment (Required by Federal | Exquisite diamond engage

Regulations} plus shipping charges. Then pay balance # ment ring with delicatel at easy rate of only $5 per month. If, for any reason, } carved wedding band to RAY Bo. s65 SS ce you are dissatisfied, return the merchandise within

ss 7; f 14K Yellow Gold. Fed. Tax ‘The ring of her venison per- 15 days and your money will be cheerfully refunded included in price.

fect, brilliant center diamond Smaii payment on arrival (plus sh°2¢ and two side Fanon: inlovely, # @ Rings enlarged to show § PINE charges. Thon only $5 6 montid modern 14K White or Yellow 3 details, Watches reduecd., 3

Gold mounting. This is a particularly fine diamond of extraordinary size for such a modest price. Fed. Tax included in price,

jf Payment on arrival (clus supe ing charges). Then only $5 a mo

Man’s handsome Ring—a mas@ sive beauty in 10K Gold Mounting. Your favorite sine ulated Birthstone available iw this. style. Specify month oz color of stone desired. Feds 4 Tax included in price. 3 BEE ie Small payment on arrival( fus shi fncluding 10% Fed. AOy Sins Charees. They oni SS Sas

parkling diamond in 14K ‘White Gold mounting of latest sesign. This dainty ring is ond of our sane features. Fed. Tax included in.price. Tax —= $32.9! — $43. Smal Payment on arrivs! (plus ship- 1f-Jewel Men’ ib Sth ad ping charges). Then only $5 a month. handsome RENSI 17-Jewel RENSIE \ ra Watch, Ar accu= Military Watch — raté, dependable Waterproof—Anti- f54 ful gift of unusua timekeeper in a Magnetiec— Shock= value at this low beautiful, modern. proof: « (Incabloe price. 10K yellow, EA case of 10K Yellow construction) Lu- § salied Sale piste mallee ee piste minous Hands and fej f2s¢: Stacn ess Ante io Gousris ate E aera eeeeh, i Sand: Comes in ate tractive presentas 4 jess Steel back. & fractvee presenta F: Small paymentonar- £4 Smal! payment onar- 5 A rival (plasship.ches.) [4 rival (plusship.ches.) fy Rugged beauty in a man’s inte Then only$Samonth. f4 Thenonly$samonth. By tial ring. Genuine Onyx top/ Initial and heavy setting in 10K Yellow Gold. Specify inia tial desired. Fed. Tax included

Gold mounting. Specify month pr golor of stone desired. Fed.

A: i in price. Tax included in price. Small payment on arrival (plus shige Et Payreent on arrival (plus ship- @ing charges. Tien only $5 2 monthig

on Ge SE Ge Tee om aw SE CW EP Ge eee ee TAPPIN'’S JEWELERS, INC.. 5 Dept. N-124, 823 Broad St., Newark 2, N. Js Please send me No.,.....ese0002-Price..... Pere | J agree to make down bayment on arrival (plus shipping; charges) then $5. a month thereafter ‘til full price fal paid. If dissatisfied I may return the selection within) ¥ ey 15 days and you will refund my money. ‘;; y x der 21 1 Beautiful cross and chain mm,: Yam over 211) J am under 21 the charm and beauty of natural TARRIN'S CIEL GUIDE. O Please send me FREE Gitt Guide Book,, The book of lovely gift sugges14K Gold. An idea) gift—Fed. [Amanita pte ete ee NAMB. ie

x included in price. ful selections: including Bilova, ~\::

all Payment on arrival (nlus shine PROMCDEC DR SUT o Lear \\ ADDRESS cerossperspececconeceesccteccseveveccuwnill

fg chai ges). Then only $5 a montis,

823 BROAD STs

Noo NEWARK 2, N. 2.”


Lis ping charges). Then only $5 3 month,

CILY, eoevrszeectersseoseraates STATB sr reeveennas

SS

PLEASE mention NEWSSTAND FicTroN UNIT when answering advertisements

urban

HE cleck on my desk registered 6:45, the patient had been dismissed, Fa ee the house came appetizing odors and the rattle of a cocktail Shaker briskly agitated. Dinner would be ready in a few minutes and— The chiming of the office bell came like a warning of impending disappointment as the late caller obeyed the “Ring and Enter” engraved on the brass plate decorating the door. Devoutly I hoped that the piéce de resistance would not be steak. A roast is little the worse for an extra half hour in a low oven, but a steak. 2s “Trowbridge!” Dunscomb Doniphan strode into the consulting room, “Thank goodness I caught you in. I’m almost frantic, old man.”

“Sit down,” I invited, noting the deep grooves etched by worry wrinkles in his brow, the long lines like parentheses that scored his cheeks, and the tired look in his eyes. Here was fatigue as plainly to be read as sky-writing on a still oF, another case

of the “nervous prosperity” that had swept the country like a plague as war orders piled

up and price became a matter of decreasing importance. “What seems to be the trouble?”

“Austine!” he flung the name at me as if it were a missile.

“Austine?” I echoed. “What—”

“Trowbridge, mon vieux, the ducklings roasting for our dinner are utterly zncinéree, and the Martinis I have made with loving care—ah!”’ as he noticed Doniphan the little Frenchman paused abashed, “a thousand pardons, Monsieur, I did not know that Dr. Trowbridge entertained a patient—”

“This is Dr. de Grandin, Doniphan,” I introduced. “Dr. de Grandin, Dunscomb Doniphan. We were in college together.” The small Frenchman shook hands cordially and turned to leave, but:

“I've heard of you, Dr. de Grandin,” Doniphan interposed. “I understand you're an expert in psychiatry.”

“There are no experts in psychiatry,” de Grandin denied with a smile. “Some of us may have penetrated a little deeper into the fog than others, but all of us are groping in that no-man’s land where theory plays a game of blind man’s buff with fact. However,” he dropped into a chair, all thoughts of dessicated ducklings, and lukewarm Martinis gone from his mind, “if there is anything that I can do I shall be very happy. What i is the problem vexing you?”

“Problem is right,” responded Doniphan grimly. ‘It’s my daughter Austine. If she were ten years younger I'd turn her over my knee and reason with her with a slipper; if

Heading by BORIS DOLGOV


The Swami made powerful magic... the magic that controls human lives.

she were five years younger I’d cut her spending money off and lock her in her room. But she’s free, white and twentyfive, with what some people might consider a fortune inherited from her grandmother, so there’s not a damn’ thing I can do with her.”

“Tiens, Monsieur, this is no problem for a psychiatrist. I damn’ think most fathers of daughters suffer from the same complaint. Jules de Grandin is not equal to this task, neither is the good ‘Trowbridge. What you need is a Solomon, and even he, if I recall! my Scripture correctly, confessed the ways of a maid—”

“You know a crazy person when you see one, don’t you?”

“U'm?” de Grandin took his narrow chin between a thoughtful thumb and forefinger. “I cannot say with certainty, Monsieur. We are all a little what you call crazy; some of we are just a little more so than the rest. What is the particular aberration from which your daughter suffers?”

The half-worried, half-puzzled look on Doniphan’s face gave way to an expression of anger. “New Thought,” he shot back. “Or Theosophy, or Yoga or Hinduism; maybe Bahaism. I don’t know what they call it. All I know is that it’s a lot of damn’ nonsense and has made an imbecile

10 WEIRD TALES

of what was once a fairly intelligent young woman.” The smoldering anger in his eyes gave way to blazing rage. ‘‘Listen, you two:

“Ten months ago this Swami Ramapali came to brighten our ignorance with the light of his countenance. Where he came from, only God knows. He might have come from India or Indiana, but wherever he hails from, he’s got what the women, young and old, eat up. Started out by giving little talks at afternoon gatherings, driveling about being In Tune With the Infinite and the Nothingness of Matter, and all that sort of rot. First thing we knew he’d progressed to holding regular meetings, then to forming a congregation with a temple of its own; three months ago he bought the Judson farm out by Passaic and founded a colony. Good Lord!” he snorted in disgust.

“And this colony of which you speak, Monsieur. Vt is—”

“I don’t know what it is. Nobody does. Austine had been going to this faker’s meetings regularly, and contributing plenty to them, judging by the entries we found, in her check books since she left home. When he set up housekeeping at the Judson place she was one of the first to join him. 1 haven’t laid eyes on her since. Neither has her mother. We've been out there half a dozen times, but she won’t see us.’ Sends out word she’s in her Silence, or some such damnfool message.”

DE GRANDIN’S slender brows went up the fraction of an inch. ‘You suspect it to be a place where—how do you say him?—untrammeled love is practiced?”

“I don’t know what to think or suspect. I don’t know anything about it, neither does anyone else. As nearly as we can find out, there are some thirty or forty people living there, mostly young women, though there’s a sprinkling of old spinsters and a few widows. All of ’em are wealthy and all of “em have cut themselves off from their families as completely as Austine has broken with us. Fve been to the police. They can’t, or won't, do anything. Say there’s no crime charged, and all that sort of legalistic rot. Now, what I want you to do is’— he leveled a stiff forefinger at de Grandin and me in turn—"find some way of getting inte that booby-hatch, sizing up the situation,

and then, if you can find a shred of evidence, appear before a lunacy commission and have Austine committed. I really think she’s clear off her rocker over this business, but if we can get her out and away from the Swami’s influence she’ll come out of it. Then —it ought to be as easy to have her declared sane as it was to have her adjudged incompetent, oughtn’t it?”

“It is deplorable,’ de Grandin murmured.

“Ain't it,” Doniphan agreed inelegantly. “To think that a well-brought-up young woman—"

“Should have such a bigoted, narrowminded parent, parbleuz!” interrupted the small Frenchman fiercely. ‘This cult to which Mademoiselle your daughter has attached herself may be all that you suspect, and more, but at any rate it satisfies her. She finds it to her liking. And you, MonSieur, because it does not meet with your approval, would perpetrate this dreadful ihing, have your own daughter branded alienée—a mad women—to be forever suspected of insanity, to have her children suspect of a strain of madness in their blood. Pardieu, it is entirely too much, this! Me, I will have none of it. Geod day, Monsieur!’’ He rose, bowed coldly, and left the room.

“Well, Trowbridge, that’s that,” Doniphan murmured. ‘What do yeu say?”

“I say go slow,” I temposrized. ‘‘Austine may have gone off the deep end, but she’ll come round in time. Just wait and see what happens.”

“That your last word?”

“Tm afraid so. I couldn't lend myself to any such scheme as you propose—”

“All right. You're not the only doctor in town. I'll find one who'll be willing to listen to reason for a thousand-dollar fee.”

“B* THE way, de Grandin,” I remarked casually at dinner some nights later, “that Swami that Doniphan was so burned up about is making a talk at Mrs. Tenbroeck’s this evening. Would you care to have a look at him? I must confess I’m somewhat curious after all I’ve heard.”

He looked up from his apple tart with one of his direct cat-stares. “I think I should, my friend. He may be a jonglexr,

KURBAN ij

quite possibly a criminal, but I should like to see this fellow who has, as Monsieur Doniphan expressed it, what the ladies devour. Yes, by all means, let us go.”

ee Swami Ramapali was just finishing his discourse as de Grandin and I found seats in the Tenbroeck drawing room. He was a young man slightly under middle height, ca:\-complected, but obviously not a member of the colored races. Dark hais, lustrous and inclined to curl, was smoothly parted in the middle and hung in long ringlets each side of his face, brushing the velvet collar of his dinner coat. His shirt of fine white linen was decorated with a double row of box pleats edged with fine lace, and against its immaculate whiteness there showed studs of onyx set with small star sapphires. Knotted negligently beneath his wide collar was a flowing black silk tie of the sort affected by art students of the ’90’s. His eyes were very large, prune-black, and held a drowsy, sensuous expression.

“All, all is only seeming,” he concluded in a voice that was almost a purr. “All seeming is a fantasy, a nothingness, a part of Brahm’s dream. We are but shadow-shapes in the Dream of the Infinite; what we call matter ts delusion. Thought only is eternal, and that which we call thought is but the echo of an echo in the Dream of the Creator.”

“Grand dieu des pores, he talks the double-talk, this one!’ de Grandin whispered. “What is this maundering of the nothingness of something and echoes of echoes—”’

**§-5-stl’ I hissed him into silence, for the Swami had stepped forward from his place beside the grand piano and the lights which had been lowered while he spoke were turned on. The vaguely unfavorable impression the Swami had made on me when I first saw him was heightened by the full light ef the chandelier. As our hostess presented us and his somber, brooding eyes fell on me with a look of almost calculating appraisal, I had a momentary feeling of revulsion as unreasonable and inexplicable, but as tangible, as a warm-blooded creature’s instinctive reaction to a snake.

He spoke no word of recognition as de Grandin and I bowed. Serene, statuc-stiil,

he received our murmured expressions of pleasure at the meeting with an air of aloofness that was almost contemptuous. Only for a fleeting instant did his expression change. Something, perhaps the gleam of mockery in the little Frenchman’s gaze, hardened his large eyes for an instant, and | had a feeling that it would behoove my feiend not to turn his back on the Swami if a dagger were handy.

In the dining room the long sideboard was laden with silver dishes of nuts, dried figs, dates and raisins. De Grandin sampled the contents of the first compote and turned away with a wry face. ‘Name of a name,” he swore softly, ‘“‘such vileness should be prohibited by law!”’

“Isn't it simply wonderful?” a lady with more than ample bosom and a succession of assistant chins gushed in my ear. “It’s in honor of the Swami, you know. His religion forbids eating anything that has been cooked or killed. Only the kind fruits of the kind earth are spread for a repast when he is present. I’m thinking seriously of taking up the diet. Poor dear Estrella Santho took it up, you know, and it did wonders—simply wonders—for her.”

De Grandin fixed his set, unwinking catstare on her. “And this poor dear lady, where is she now, if you please?”

Our vis-4-v7s seemed slightly taken aback, but rallied in a moment with a sad sweet smile. ‘“‘She has passed on—her faith was stronger than ours. Where we linger hesitating on the brink, afraid to take the plunge, she made the great decision and became a neophyte in the Swami’s colony, the Gateway to Peace. She had completed the initial steps and was almost ready to become one of the hierot when she was absorbed into the Infinite, she has passed her final incarnation and dwells forever in the ineffable light emanated by the Divine All—”

“In fine, Madame, one gathers she is defunct, deceased; dead?”

“In the language of the untaught—yes,” the lady admitted. “‘It was so tragic, too. You see, the dwellers on the Threshold of Peace wear Eastern costume—no hampering Western clothes to take their minds from contemplation—and she was bitten by a snake—”

“A snake, Madame? You interest me.

12 WEIRD TALES

What sort of snake was it, if you. know?”

“Really, sir,”’ the lady had apparently become tired of his catechism, “I haven't the faintest idea. \/Zhat sort of snakes usually bite people in this latitude?”

“That is precise.; what one asks to know,” he answered, but he spoke to the departing dowager’s broad back.

“Ah-h’m?” he murmured as he drew a gold pencil from his pocket and scribbled a memorandum in his notebook. ‘“This we shall look into, I damn’ think.”

“What?” I demanded, but our hostess’ announcement from the farther room prevented further conversation:

“The Swami has consented to perform a miracle for us. He will demonstrate the power of mind over seeming matter.”

“Qu’est-ce-qui?”’ de Grandin’s tightly waxed wheat-blond mustache was all a-quiver, like the whiskers of an alert tom-cat. “Come, friend Trowbridge, this is something we must not forbear to witness, not by any means.”

EpeE drawing-room lights had been lowered again and the Swami was seated before a small table on which lay an ordinary lead pencil. He put his elbows on his knees and stared intently before him a long moment, then raised’ slender, ring-decked hands and moved them back and forth above the pencil. Faster and faster moved the undulating hands. It seemed, almost, they wove a pattern of invisible threads in the air. Then slowly, unbelievably, it happened. With a movement almost serpentine the pencil writhed a little, rose a full half-inch, then dropped back, the metallic band that held its rubber tip making a faint clicking sound against the polished table top. The Swami's hands wove fresh patterns above it, came together with a soft clap, then separated slowly. And as they drew apart the pencil rose unsteadily, wavered drunkenly a moment at an acute angle and, almost against

its will, it seemed, balanced on its sharp-.

ened point. The half-lit room seemed vibrant with something unseen and unholy. I had a sudden feeling of uncanny dread, as if I’d witnessed the raising of a dead and stiffened body. For a moment the insensate bit of rubber, wood and graphite stood upright as a toe-dancer executing a

pirouette, then, falling drunkenly sidewise, rolled off the polished table to the floor.

‘How wonderful! Marvelous! Miraculous!” the whispered comments ran around the shadowed. room.

The Swami leant back in his chair, a look of physical exhaustion on his face. “Thought,” he murmured tiredly, “only thought is strong. What you have seen, my friends, is but a manifestation of the power of the will. That we call matter is of no consequence, no potency. The vaunted science of the West cannot explain such things; the stupid, cold religions of the West have nothing concrete to offer. Their storybooks are full of tales of miracles and wonders, all worked in the long-ago. But if you ask them for a miracle today—even such a little thing as that which I have done just now—they turn to vague excuses, saying that the age of miracles is aes

De Grandin had tiptoed to the hall now, as the Swami paused 2 moment, he came back into the drawing room, his silverheaded stick beneath his elbow. “Pardonnezmoi, Monsieur Swami,” he interrupted, “but here is one who does not subscribe to yout thesis. In one of those story-books which you deride it is recorded how Pharoah’s necromancers cast their rods upon the earth and they became live, hissing serpents. And when Aaron, Moses’ brother, cast his staft upon the ground, it likewise became a serpent and devoured those rod-serpents of Pharoah’s sorcerers. Regardez-moi, s’il vous plait—’ He aoe into a chair opposite the Swami, braced his stick between his knees and began to make passes over it. “You vitalized a little, insignificant leadpencil, Monsieur Swami. Trés bon. Me, I shall call a walking stick to life. Attendez!”

He waved slim hands above the silver knob of the cane a moment, and the upright stick fell from between his knees, almost struck the floor, then, rallying with a wavering, uncertain movement, slowly rose until it stood upright upon its ferrule. For a moment it swayed gently, then rose clear of the floor and fell clattering to the polished boards at his feet.

He rose and bowed to the assemblage as if he were an actor on a stage, but no applause greeted his exhibition. “What, is

KURBAN 13

there none to show appreciation of my jonglerie?” he demanded, “For shame, messieurs et dames. Is it that you seek an explanation? Bren. 1 show you. Lights, if you will be so kind,” and as the lights snapped on, he took the cane up and showed them a three-foot length of black suture silk attached to it. “You see, I fasten this small thread to the stick, then I take the ends between my hands—so.” He drew the string taut, and the cane rose till it stood upon its ferrule. “Trés bien. Then I loosen the thread, and the cane she Jeans from side to side. When I once more tighten the thread she comes back to the vertical. C'est trés simple, n’est-ce-pas? It is an old, old jugglers trick, one that I learned in boyhood. Yes, certainly.

‘Ah, but,’ you say, ‘the Monsieur Swami had no thread to make his pencil dance upon its tip. He are a really-truly supernatural someone.’ Ah, bah!” So quickly none of us divined his purpose, he lashed a hand out, thrust his fingers into the Swami’s waistcoat pocket and dragged out the pencil with which the miracle had been worked. From its upper end, close to the metal cap that held the rubber to the wood, there dangled eighteen inches of hair-fine black silk thread.

A flush stained the Swami’s cheeks and brow, his great dark eyes suffused with tears of embarrassment, “‘It is a trick,’’ he almost shrieked. ‘“‘A trick—’

“But certainly, mon ami,” the Frenchman laughed delightedly. “A trick it is, and a most good one, too. Come now, confess that you did make the innocent joke tonight. They asked you for to perform some wonder, and you did do it for them. Very well you did it, too. I could not have done it better myself, and I am very clever. Let us make no hard feelings’ —he clapped the Swami jovially upon the shoulder—‘‘let us all be jolly friends together.”

The amiability he sought to rouse was something less than hilarious, but at least the tension had been broken, and half an hour later we took our leave with a rather wintry good-bye from our hostess.

“N AME of a small green man!” he chuckled delightedly as we drove to my house, “Did I not make a monkey out of

him, friend Trowbridge? I think that he will not try to make the dancing pencil very soon again; not before that audience, at any rate.”

H’m,” I rejoined. “You surely showed him up, but all the same I have a feeling everything was not as innocent as it seemed. Lae was an atmosphere of something ev aes, >

“Parbleu, you felt it, too? lighted!”

“Delighted!”

“But certainly. I had a feeling of malaise, of something sinister and ugly, directly I went into that room where he drooled his senseless dribble, but I am the suspicious one. I have traveled much among the fakirs and seen the so-called holy men at their unholy monkey-business. I do not like or trust those ones. To me they have the odor of dead fish.

“It was no parlor trick that he performed tonight, my friend. He was in deadly earnest, and would have let the imposition stand, had I not unmasked it. It was as false as his philosophy and his alleged religion, but—did you take note of that gathering?” he changed the subject abruptly.

“How do you mean?”

“Its composition. Did you notice the preponderance of women? And what sort of women? Not young, not old, but middleaged.

“A very dangerous age indeed, my friend. Too old for romance, yet too young for resignation, and obviously well supplied with cash. Such people make the ideal victims for the charlatan. I damn think I shall follow the investigation of this Monsieur Swami further in the morning. Yes, certainly.”

I am deE WAS late for dinner the next evening, and when he came in there was that expression in his little round blue eyes that told me he had made an important discovery. “Well?” I demanded as we took our seats.

‘Non, my dear, good friend, I do not think that it is well,” he denied as he sipped his Martini. “Upon the contrary, I fear that it is very not-so-well. I have apologized to Monsieur Doniphan and agreed to take his case.”

14 WEIRD TALES

“You mean you'll be a party to having Austine declared insane—”

“Better temporarily insane than dead, nzon tiewx. Perhaps she will be both before this business has come to its end. Attend me, if you please,” he leveled his soup spoon at me. “This morning I went to the court house and asked to see the wills that have been probated in the last three months.”

“¥ese

“Oui-da. Among them I did find the one I sought, that of the poor dear Mademoiselle Santho, ef whom the lady of the several chins told us last night. Dear she may have been, but certainly she was not poor. She had a comfortable fortune, oh, a very comfortable one of two hundred thousand dollars. And what did she do with it, Task you? Parblex, she willed it to her dear friend the Swami Ramapali! What do you make from that?”

“Undue influence?”

“Indubitably. Damn yes. But there is something more, a something sinister that dees not leap immediately to the eye. She diec, if you recall, of snake-bite.”

“Yes, ¥ remember hearing that.”

“Very well, or, more precisely, very bad. £he made her will upon a Wednesday. Upon the following day, Thursday, she was bitten fatally by a snake. Was it not a most accommodating serpent who dispatched her so conveniently and quickly?”

“Good heavens, d’ye think—”

“Not yet, my friend. I do not think. I am like a blind man in an unfamiliar place. I feel about me, grope for something which will show me where I am and how I should proceed, and what is it my searching fingers find? Nothing, pardieu! Nothing at all. Ht may be that I raise the shadow of a bugaboo unnecessarily, but—can you spare tomorrow morning to go out to Monsieur Swami’s colony where Mademoiselle Austine has taken residence? I should greatly like to see that place.”

le WAS evident that Swami Ramapali did not welcome visitors to the colony, for a cement wall some ten feet high surrounded the grounds, and the morning sunlight glinted on the raw edges of a triple row of broken bottles set in mortar on its top. The only entrance was a narrow door of heavy

planking reinforced with iron straps and fitted at man’s height with a little wicket through which callers might be inspected.

De Grandin struck a sharp, authoritative knock on the door, then, as no answer came to his hail, repeated: the summons more loudly. The wicket in the door flew open abruptly and a dark face topped by a soiled white cotton turban scowled at us. “Go away,” the porter ordered. “Your noise annoys the silence of this holy place.”

“Tiens, Monsieur Dirty-Hat, 7 will experience even more annoyanee if you do not make your door open alt seen. I am Dr. Jules de Grandin and this is Dr. Samuel Trowbridge, and we would talk with Mademoiselle Austine Doniphan. Cenduct us to her quickly, if you please.”

The panel snapped shut suddenly as it had opened, and we were left to view the door again in silence.

“Queue d’un rat mort, they shall not shut their twenty-times-accursed door in our faces!” de Grandin swore. ‘“They shall not—”

The heavy door swung open slowly and the porter greeted us with a salaam. “Be pleased to enter through the Gateway to Peace,’ he announced sonorously.

“Ah, now, my friend, you use the gas for culinary purposes,” de Grandin complimented as we stepped across the threshold.

We followed our guide down a long alley lined with little cement hutches no larger than good-sized dog houses and, like dog houses, having only one opening shaped like an inverted U and so low that whoever entered would have to craw} on hands and knees. Crossing the alleyway were other even narrower passages, apparently forming a series of concentric circles radiating from a low one-story structure of stucco. with a pagoda-like roof and low perch surrounded by a series of interlaced trefoil arches. There was no sign of life in the street through which we passed, but in the transverse alleys we caught glimpses of white-robed figures kneeling before the kennel-like heuses, heads bent, hands clasped in what seemed silent contemplation. Curiously enough, several of them seemed to combine eégarettes with their devotions, for we saw them raise the little paper tubes to.their mouths, draw

KURBAN 15

deeply at them, and blow smoke slowly from their nostrils.

We reached the central structure, mounted the low single step that led to its veranda and paused before a curtained doorway. “Proceed into the presence of the Sublimity,” our -guide bade, holding back the hanging of striped cotton goods that draped the doorway, and we stepped into the almost total darkness of a bare, unfurnished room. As my eyes became accustomed to the gloom I descried a seated figure at the far side of the apartment. He was squatting on a large pillow, legs crossed, feet folded sole-upward upon his calves, hands resting palm-up in his lap, with fingertips barely touching.: As far as I could see his costume consisted of a sheet of saffron-yellow cotton loosely belted at the waist, leaving arms, chest, legs and feet uncovered. His head was bowed, not did he look up as we entered, but:

“You would speak with her who in the world was known as Austine Doniphan?” he asked in a low voice, and instantly I recognized the Swami Ramapali.

But how changed! Where there had been luxuriant dark hair the night we saw him at the Tenbroeck house we now saw only naked scalp, for his head was shaven smooth as an egg, giving him at once a curiously infantile and aged appearance.

De Grandin bent a sharp look on him. “Tt seems that I was right, Monsieur Swami,” he announced. “I could have sworn that you were crowned with a wig. Your hair, apparently, is no more genuine than yout magic—"

“You would speak with her who in the world was known as Austine Doniphan?” the Swami interrupted in the same low, level voice.

“By blue, we would, and quickly, if you please, Monsieur. My patience is no longer than my nose, and nature has not gifted me with a long proboscis.”

The Swami struck his hands together with a sharp clap. “Bid Savatri to the presence,” he ordered as our late guide paused upon the threshold with a deep salaam.

We waited for perhaps five minutes while de Grandin and the Swami seemed to be engaged in seeing who could stare the other down, then a shaft of sunlight stabbed the shadows as the doorway curtain was pulled

back and a girl stepped soundlessly into the room.

if HAD not seen Austine Doniphan for some time, and probably should not have recognized her if I'd passed her in the street. Certainly the odd figure which crept into our presence bore no resemblance to the girk I'd known. Her costume seemed to consist of some yards of soiled white cotton cloth wrapped round and round her body from bosom to ankles almost as tightly as mummybandages. Her arms and shoulders were uncovered, as were her feet and ankles, and so tightly was the cotton bound about her knees that she walked like a hobbled animal, setting one foot precisely before the other, and turning her hips with an exaggerated motion. A loose end of her winding sheet had been brought up to drape her head with a sort of veil, secured by a long wooden pin passed through cloth and hair. Her arms were held stiffly at her sides, hands at right angles to wrists, palms parallel to the floor. On her brow above the bridge of her nose a small daub of bright vermilion showed like a fresh wound against the skin.

Her eyes were large and fine, with long, silky lashes, and though her face was thin with sunken-cheeked thinness, there was no evidence of ill-health. I recognized the symptom. Primary emaciation resulting from sudden diminution of diet.

Looking neither right nor left, without so much as indicating by the lifting of an eyebrow that she saw us, she slipped forward with her oddly creeping walk and came to a halt before the Swami.

A moment she paused thus, head bent demurely, hands clasped together palm to ae the fingers pointing downward, then ike a hinged dummy she sank to her knees, raised both hands above her head, bent forward, laying them upon the floor palm-upward, and dropped her forehead between them.

“Name of a name!” de Grandin swore. “This is indecent, this! Arise, thou foolish one, stand on thy feet—”

“Rise, follower of the Eternal Truth,” the Swami bade, and at the command the girl struggled to her knees, awkwardly, for the tightness of her winding-sheet was like a fetter, raised her hands above her head and joined them palm to palm, but kept

16 WEIRD TALES

her eyes downcast. “Look on these. men,” he ordered. “Dost thou know them?”

She cast a quick, almost frightened glance in our direction, then bent her head again. “I know one of them, Sublimity. He is a friend of my father—”

The Swami struck his palms together sharply. “Remember thy oath, Savatri! Thou has no father nor mother, nor any friends or kin. Thy every thought is centered on the Infinite Eternal—”

The girl lurched forward till she lay fulllength before him and beat her forehead on the floor. ‘Forgive, forgive, Sublimity! Be patient with the dullest of thy pupils!” Her self-abasement was so complete that I felt almost sick with embarrassment for her.

“Proceed, then, but be mindful of your

vow,” he ordered. _ “One of them, Sublimity, was known to me in the house wherein I dwelt in the world of ignorance,” she replied in a low, frightened voice as she once more struggled to her knees. “He was a doctos—a physician who in his ignorance pretended to have power to cure the ills of the flesh—”

“Instruct him, Savatri,” the Swami nodded to her.

“Dr. Trowbridge,” she turned her great eyes, large and gentle as a gazelle’s, full on me, “I pity you. You struggle in the dark, even as I did before the light of Truth Eternal fell on me. Do you not know, you foolish old man, that what we call the flesh, the body, all that we think material, are but the faintest shadows of shadows, and nothing real exists in the universe but thought? By treating what we call our bodies with contempt, by starving them, tormenting them, bringing them to utter and complete subjection, we weaken them but strengthen our souls. Anon we shall succeed in sloughing them away, flinging off the useless and undying—”

"Cordieu, Mademoiselle, you interest me,” de Grandin broke in. “And the end of it

“Nothing,” she replied. ‘From the Infinite we came, and slowly toward the Infinite we struggle through countless incarnations. At last we shall attain perfection and be absorbed into the Infinite, all trace of self—of what you call the personality— forever lost and blotted out.”

“Well said, my pupil,” the Swami commended softly. ‘But is not the Way of Truth too hard for you? F have thought sometimes you were not able to endure the task of bodily subjection—”

“Sublimity!” Austine fell forward on her face and clasped her hands across her bowed neck. “Have gracious pity! Do not send me hence, I beg! If I have faltered in my duty it was not because I lacked the will; I had not strength to beat the flesh into complete subjection—”

es was something subtle and beguiling in the soft tone of his voice as he broke in: “For those who have the courage there is a short way to Kailas. There is a long and toilsome way, and a short, easy ath.

: “Omkar holds the door of Kailas open for those who would be reabsorbed into the Infinite without necessity for countless reincarnations—”

A tremor like a spasm shook the girl's bowed body. “Subtimity,”” she panted, “say that I may take that way! Give me leave to go to Kailas through Karban! Grant permission for my entry into the Ineffable Nothingness that See rest and oblivion. I would be Kurban, Sublimity!”

“Grand Dieu!’ de Grandin breathed.

“Ah,” the Swami let the syllable out slowly. ‘Thou has made the choice thyself, Savatri. Remember, only thou canst make the choice—”

“I know, I know!” the girl broke in, breath coming in quick, sobbing gasps. “None but I can make the choice, none in heaven or in earth can tevoke it. Record the vow, Sublimity! Freely, fully, voluntarily, I have made the choice. I will be Kurban!”

At a sign from the Swami she rose and turned'to us. “I’m sorry, Dr. Trowbridge,” she said gently, every trace of the frenzy that had possessed her completely gone. “You can never undetstand, neither can the others. I have come here of my own free will, and here I shall remain. In this place I have found such peace as J had never hoped to find on earth. Thank you for coming, and good-bye. I go to ter joys than ever woman knew before.” She stretched a slender hand out, took mine in

KURBAN We

a firm clasp, and turned away with a murmured, ‘Peace be with you.”

“See here,’”’ I told the Swami as Austine slipped from the room, “I don’t know what all this nonsense is about, but it’s obvious to me Miss Doniphan is not sound mentally. IT came here to observe her, and in my opinjon she’s not responsible—”

“You think so?’ Ramapali interrupted sarcastically. ‘However unusual her actions may have seemed at first, you can hardly say she seemed irrational when she left, Dr. Trowbridge. Do you honestly believe any jury would commit her to an institution if she appeared as normal as she did a moment since? Perhaps you'll see things in a different light when you have thought them over.”

“Eh bien, Monsieur Swami, we have not yet begun our thinking, I assure you,” answered Jules de Grandin. “It may be we shall meet again—”

“T greatly doubt it, Dr. de Grandin,” the Swami broke in. “Now, if you will excuse me—I would resume my contemplation.”

“Au ‘voir, Monsieur, but by no means adieu,” de Grandin answered as he turned on his heel.

c WAS shortly after three o'clock that afternoon when he called up to ask permission to bring a friend to dinner. ‘A most delightful person, friend Trowbridge. An Indian gentleman named Ram Chitra Das who has been most kind and helpful, and I will be more so. Yes.”

Mr. Das proved a pleasant surprise. I had had visions of a sloe-eyed Oriental with a pink or green turban and an air of insufferable condescension. Had I not known his origin I should have mistaken the man de Grandin brought to dinner for a Spaniard or Italian. His dark eyes were alert and keen with more than a suggestion of humor in them, his features small and regular, his tailoring faultless and his accent reminiscent of Oxford. He was, it appeared, the son of the tenth son of a Nepalese princeling who had so far forgotten the conventions as to fall in love with and actually marry a nautchni—a solecism comparable to an American parson’s son marrying a burleseme strip-teaser. But because the old prince loved his son, and because the son was so far removed from the throne

that ihe possibility of his succession was practically nil, the only punishment inflicted was banishment on a pension which equaled the income he would have enjoyed had he remained in the palace.

Ram Chitra Das was born in British India and for his first ten years was educated by a queer mixture of Mission School and native gurus’ teaching. It was his father who insisted on his English education and his mother who saw that he received the training of a high-caste Hindu. ‘The dear old girl was frightfully keen on the princely blood, you know, even though the strain had begun to fun pretty thin by the time 3t reached me.”

When he was ten his father sent him to a good public school in England. He had been only fifteen when the World War broke out, but was given a commission as subaltern in an Indian regiment, fought in France, took his degree at Oxford after the war, and returned to India as a member of the Intelligence Section of the British Indian Police.

“Lord, no, ’m no Brahmin,” he laughed when I commented on the ample justice he had done the roast beef at dinner. “The pater’s caste was broken when he married the mater, you know, and whatever caste I had was smashed to bits when I crossed the ocean to England. I hadn't any desire to go through the disagreeable ceremony of having it restored. Sometimes I wonder what_I really am. I was nurtured in the belief of the old gods of Hind, and several English parsons, not to mention kind old ladies, labored manfully to make a Christian of me. The net result is that I try to follow St, Paul’s advice to prove all things and hold fast to that which is good. I’ve found a lot of good—and some things not entirely to my liking—in all religions.”

“But you recall your early training?” de Grandin asked.

“Oh, yes, just as a worldly Christian adult recalls the catechisms he learned as a child. Like this, you mean?” He looked about him, finally crossed the drawing room and took a tiny ivory figure from a curio cabinet. It was perhaps an inch high and represented a peacock with spread tail.

Placing it on the coffee table, he stared fixedly zt it, elbows on knees, hands inters

18 WEIRD TALES

Jaced beneath his chin. A moment--two— went by, and I experienced a slight chill along my spine as I saw the carved ivory rise half an inch from the table, circle round as if in flight, then settle down at least a foot from the spot where he had placed it.

“Why, that’s the trick the Swami did!’ I exclaimed, but Mr. Das shook his head.

“No, Dr. Trowbridge, that’s the trick this fellow you call Ramapali pretended to do, and which Dr. de Grandin exposed so neatly. I assure you I had no strings tied to your peacock, and you saw that my hands were motionless and never nearer than my chin to the ivory.”

“But—that’s magic. True magic.”

GAIN he shook his head. “I wouldn’t

call it that, sir, although there are many who would. I don’t pretend to understand it, any more than the dear old ladies who practice table tipping can explain why lifeless wood will vibrate and dance all round the parlor beneath their fingers. But just as I’m perfectly sure that spooks have nothing to do with the movements of the ladies’ tables, I’m certain that neither gods nor demons had anything to do with making that bit of ivory seem to defy gravity. It’s just one of those things for which we have no ready explanation—yet.”

“Now,” his laughing eyes became suddenly serious, “I’m interested in this Swami Ramapali, as he calls himself. From what Dr. de Grandin tells me, I think I know him. Some twenty years ago a young man named Michael Quinault was sent to jail in Bombay for practicing Christian wiles on ‘the heathen in his blindness. He had been some sort of confidence man in the States, I understand. He certainly lacked confidence that day in Bombay when the judge sahib sentenced him to five years penal servitude for fleecing a Parsee widow out of her insurance money.

“He really should have thanked the judge, however, for jail proved just the thing he needed. No’—as I prepared a question” —it didn’t reform him. It opened up new vistas. In jail he made the acquaintance of our slickest native criminals, and they can be very slick, believe me. He got a smattering of Hindustani, and a fair working knowledge of Hindu philosophy

and religion. Learned something about Yoga, too. In fine, when he came out he was equipped to palm himself off as a genuine gwrvu—that means holy man, of teacher, sometimes miracle-worker—on anybody not too well acquainted with the genuine article. He also had another souvenir of imprisonment. A severe case of fever had made him totally and permanently bald as an egg. That might have proved a handicap to most; it was a valuable asset to him in his new role of religious teacher and revealer of the Truth. We hear of him occasionally—he’s swindled his way clear across the continent of Europe and the British Isles with his merry little masquerade, and done a handsome business in the States. His victims are neatly always women. There is a certain type of Western woman to whom anything oriental is simply resistless, just as there’s a type of oriental female who can’t resist a Western man, He’s an adept at picking his—what is it you chaps call *em?—suckers?

“If it were just a matter of separating credulous ladies from their cash I shouldn't be so much concerned. That sort of thing’s been going on since time began, and will probably continue till eternity replaces time. But from what Dr. de Grandin tells me there’s something far more serious involved here.”

“Indeed?” I answered.

“Murder.”

“Murder?” I echoed, horrified.

“Murder, parbleu!” de Grandin seconded. “Consider, if you please: This Mademoiselle Santho who willed her whole estate to the Swami Ramapali-Quinault, then so conveniently shuffled off the mortal coil by snake-bite. I was greatly interested in her. So to the Bureau of Vital Statistics I went and looked at her death certificate. It was signed by Dr. William Macwhyte of Tunlaw Mills. You know him?”

“No.”

“What?”

“So did I. But I made his acquaintance. According to his report he was roused from bed early in the morning to minister to a lady at the Swami’s colony who had been bitten by a serpept.. “What sgt of serpent?” I ask him.

“*A rattlesnake,’ he tells,jne.

“ ‘Indeed?’ I asked to know. ‘And did you

KURBAN 19

you satisfy yourself concerning this, cher collé ge?”

“ “But certainly,’ he tells me. ‘She was bitten in the ankle. The venom was injected directly into the posterior tibial artery about four inches above the astragalus. Death must have supervened within a very short time. There were the characteristic punctures where the fangs had pierced the epidermis and the derma to the subcutaneous tissue; slight lividities around the wounds, and considerable coagulation of the blood.’”

“Does it not leap to the eye?”

“Perhaps it leaps to yours. Not to mine.”

“Forgive me, friend Trowbridge. I do forget you are a general practitioner, and though a very skillful one, not familiar with reptile bites. The venom of the rattlesnake destroys the protoplasm of the blood, rendering it uncoaguable. It is about ninetyeight percent blood-destroying in its action. The venom of the cobra, tout le coniraire, permits the blood to thicken, since its action is a swift paralysis, the poison attacking the nefve centers at once, and being only two to five percent blood-destroying. You see?”

“Can't say I do.”

“Mordieu, 1 did forget. Perhaps you did not read him: Just two weeks prior to 1a Santho’s death two cobras—king cobras, ophiophagus elaps—were secretly abstracted from the reptile house at the zoological garden. I remembered reading of it in Je Journal and wondering who would be such a great fool as to steal two six-foot tubes of sudden death. Then, when I put the pieces of the so unfortunate lady’s deathpuzzle together, ‘Jules de Grandin,’ I say to me, ‘we have something here, Jules de Grandin,’ and ‘It are indubitably as you say, Jules de Grandin,’ I reply to me, ‘Just what it are we have I do not rightly know, but beyond the question of a doubt, we have something.’ ””

He turned to Ram Chitra Das. “Tell him what Kurban means, if you will be so kind,” he ordered.

“Kurban,” the Indian replied, “means self-immolatiét, the offerifig of oneself voluntarily as a human sacrifice. A Hindu woman may &ind quick ss to Kailas— heavenly oblivion—by voluntarily offering herself as a sacrifice on the altar of Okmar,

which is one of Siva’s less admirable attributes. Or a widow, who is doomed to’ countless incarnations for the sin of having permitted her husband to predecease her, may avert the curse by Kurban. Perfectly ridiculous, of course, yet it differs more in degree than kind from the Christian woman’s entering a convent or enlisting in the Salvation Army or going as a nurse in a lepersorium.”

“Good heavens!” I exclaimed. “We heard her say she wanted to become Kaurban—”

“Précisément,” de Grandin agreed. “I, too, heard it. Therefore, my friends, in half an hour Captain Chenevert of the State gendarmerie will meet us on the Andover Road, and to that sixty-three-times damned colony we go to see what happens. Are you with us, mon vieux?” he turned to Mr. Das.

“Oh, absolutely, old thing. This Quinault bloke led our police a merry chase. I'd like to be in at the death.”

AHIGHWAY patrol car waited for us a mile or so out on the Andover Road, and as we drew abreast, Captain Chenevert thrust his head from a window. “Good evening, Dr. de Grandin; evening, Dr. Trowbridge,” he greeted. “Pleased to meet you, Mr. Das,” as de Grandin introduced our guest. “What’s all this hush-hush stuff about? If I hadn’t worked with you before and didn’t know you've always got something on the ball I'd have said, “The hell with it,’ tonight. I’ve got a big day tomorrow—"

“Parbleu, my worthy one, and you shall have a fine large night of it tonight, or Jules de Grandin is more greatly mistaken than he thinks! But yes.”

Briefly he outlined the situation, and Chenevert’s lips pursed in a soundless whistle. “Baldy Quinault?” he murmured. “Masqueradin’ as a Hindu faker an’ bumpin’ women off with trick snakes. Well, what d’ye know? Let’s get going.”

“Softly, my friends, be silent, I implore you!” de Grandin bade as we drew up be fore the entrance-way of the colony. “We must make no noise—”

At his gestured command we flattened ourselves to the wall and he struck three


peremptory knocks on the door. There was no answer, but after the third repetition of the summons the wicket shot back, and though we could not see from our positions, & knew the porter looked through the spyole. De Grandin crouched out of the warder’s line of vision, silent as a shadow, till the wicket slammed shut, then beat three thunderous blows upon the planking of the gate. This time the response was instantaneous. The wicket shot back violently, the porter took a second look, then, seeing nothing, slipped the heavy bar from its braces and swung the door back a few inches, thrusting his head out.

Merci bien; merci bien une mille fois— a thousand thanks, my friend!” de Grandin chuckled. His blackjack swung in a short arc, not downward where its impact would have been cushioned by the fellow’s turban, but sidewise, so that it took him squarely on the frontal bone and dropped him to his knees like a steer bludgeoned on the killing floor of a slaughter house.

Chenevert took over momentarily. “Two of you stay here,” he ordered the four troopers who accompanied him. “If this bird comes out of it, see that he doesn’t raise a holler. McCarty, you and Hansen come with me. Have your riot guns ready; we're apt to need ’em in a hurry. Okay, Dr. de Grandin. It’s your ball from here on.”

NSS a light showed anywhere, nor was there any sign of life among the little buildings of the colony, but from the centraf structure came a muted wailing of reed pipes played in tuneless unison and the muttering rhythm of a tom-tom. “Ah-ha?” the Frenchman whispered. “They have lost no time, these ones. Forward, mes enfants?’

Stepping high to avoid unseen obstacles, breathing through our mouths lest our respitation betray us, we hastened toward the central building, mounted its low single step and paused a breathless moment at its curtained doorway. “Entrez, mais en silence!” ordered Jules de Grandin.

Twin bronze braziers burned at the far, side of the room, shedding a ruddy glow.

that stained rather than lightened the darkness of the place, and from them curled ong spirals of heady incense as kneeling


women fed handsful of aromatic powder on their glowing charcoal, The air was sickening with the mingled scents of aloes, sandalwood and cedar, and—even mixed with the perfumes of the aromatics its odor could not be disguised—cannabis Indica, the bhang, or hashish of the East, the drug of madness compared to which the marifuana of the West is as beer to brandy.

About the darkened room, their robes of cotton shining ghostly, leprous white against the gloom, some thirty figures, mostly women, crouched in attitudes of abject prostration, humming a low, wailing chant and emphasizing its crescendos by rising to their knees, hands held aloft, and clapping them together softly.

The mournful canticle came to a close, and from a farther doorway stepped the Swami Ramapali. His yellow robe had been replaced by a white gown of rhinestone-studded satin, a turban of white silk was bound about his head, and from its knot a brooch of brilliants caught the red reflection of the braziers’ glow. Jeweled sandals shod his feet, and in his hand he held a rod of polished wood tipped with a knob shaped like an acorn. At sight of him the congregation groveled on the floor, then as a brazen gong clanged ominously rose to their knees and raised their hands in salute.

Two more deep, clanging strokes came from the unseen gong, and through the curtains of the door behind the Swami came Austine Doniphan. She, too, had changed her costume. Gone was her wrapped robe of soiled cotton, and in its place she wore a short bodice of purple satin and a full skirt of gold tissue bound about the waist and hips with a scarf of crimson silk. Silver anklets clinked and chimed with each step that she took, and band on band of silver circled wrists and arms. Her dark hair had been smoothly parted in the middle, and down the part there ran a streak of vivid red. As I glanced at her bare feet I saw their soles were painted red to match the part in her hair, and when she raised her hands in salute to the Swami I saw their palags were stained brilliant yellow. Memory; ya horrifygag bell in my mind: ore Phe een by a missionary that the colors daubed on Austine’s

KURBAN 21

head, hands and feet were thus applied to the bodies of Hindu women whose husbands survived them, and were never smeared on till the time and place of cremation had been fixed.

qe girl bent in a deep salaam to the Swami, then as the gong boomed three dull, brazen strokes, elevated hands above her head, pressed their yellow-painted palms together, and, rising on tiptoe, began gyrating rapidly. Faster and faster she whirled; the weighted hem of her goldtissue dress rose slowly with centrifugal force until the garment stood out from her like a wheel and she was like a goldenpetaled flower of which her white legs were the stem, the stiffly outstanding skirt the blades, and her body from the waist upward, the pistil.

“Look, for God’s sake!’’ rasped Chenevert in my ear, and I choked on a horror-stticken breath as something like a narrow streak of shadow rippled from the doorway just behind the madly whirling girl. It was about the thickness of a steamship’s hawser, and about its color, too, and bent and twisted sinuously in a series of conjoined W’s, then coiled upon itself until the circle of its body and upreared head were like a giant, obscene Q. Then it uncoiled once more, lay upon the floor in a long, twisted line, and reared its wedgeshaped head to thrust forth a forked tongue. Slowly the steely whip of elongated body crept across the floor, nearer the girl’s white, whirling feet, nearer—nearer,

The breath stopped in my throat, What was it Dr. Macwhyte had told de Grandin? Estrella Santho had died of snake-venom injected directly into her posterior tibial artery, the great blood vessel that supplies the back of the foot—about four inches above the astragalus or ankle bofie.

A tripple of movement showed in the wavering light cast by the braziers and a second cobra joined the first, its sphenoid head raised inquiringly, its molasses-colored tongue flickering forward like a jet of flame.

“Don't shoot!” I heard’ Chenevert caution the tropers. We'd be sure fo hit her—”

Beside me, coming unexpectedly as a ciap

“They're too close.

of thunder on a clear day, there rose a sudden spiral of sound. Not strident, but soft, melodious, lilting, liquid as an ocarina played in middle register, With hands pressed tight against his lips, Ram Chitra Das was imitating the notes of an Indian flute. The music fluctuated from a slender spider-web of sound to a soft and threaty murmur like that of pigeons busy with their courtship. It was in a minor key, the mourning, sad lament that stamps all Oriental music, yet underneath its liquid, muted tones there was the faint suggestion of shrill, spiteful Jaughter.

The cobras heard it, and halted their zigzagging course toward the madly whirling girl. One of them raised its head questioniagly, then the other. Suspiciously they, paused a moment, swaying slowly, uncertainly, then turned away from Austine and faced Ram Chitra Das. The foremost snake raised half a yard of mottled body from the floor, and as it reared itself the hood behind its head expanded slowly till it looked like a gigantic toadstool fastened to the sinuous barrel of its body just behind the head. The second cobra seemed to struggle for a moment, then, like the first, began to rise. Slowly, apparently unwillingly, they rose and rose; now they were balancing upon what seemed no more than half a foot of coiled tail, and their heads swayed slowly with a circular motion in time to the flute’s rhythm.

“Get her to hell away from there!” Ram Chitra Das brought his cupped hands down from his lips an instant. “IH hold the snakes—be quick!”

“Take her, Trowbridge, mon vieux,” de Grandin cried as he kicked his way through the groveling congregation toward the Swami. ‘Take her in your arms and bear her hence, This one is mine!”

Avoiding the charmed snakes as widely as I could, I put my arms about Austine and drew her to me. She made no struggle as I lifted her, but lay as limp and helpless as a woman in a swoon.

The little Frenchman’s fist shot out and cracked against the Swami’s chin with a sharp impact. “Hola, mon ami,” he cried, “here is company you did not expect at your party!” A second uppercut sent the Swami reeling back against the wall, ard before


he could regain his balance handcuffs snapped upon his wrists. “I make you arresied for the murder of Estrella Santho and the attempted murder of Austine Doniphan, Michael Quinault alias Ramapali,” de Grandin announced. “This time, par Ja barbe d’un babouin rouge, 1 think you will not beat the rap. No, not at all, by damn it!”

Ram Chitra Das had followed us, and stood above the swaying cobras. “Hayahhou!’ he cried as he ceased humming the flute-tune. ‘““The dance is ended, favored ones of Brahm. ‘The time for rest has come!”

Slowly, as if they had been lowered on invisible threads, the almost erect snakes sank to the floor and lay there inertly, quiveting slightly, but giving no further sign of life. Unceremoniously as if he gathered up two lengths of rope Ram Chitra Das picked them up, seizing them carefully behind the head, and bore them, tails trailing flaccidly on the floor, through the doorway whence they had emerged.

“Nobody move!’’ Chenevert’s voice rang like metal striking metal. “You're all under arrest as material witnesses. Take ‘em in charge, McCarty.”

A" eee of it’s plain,” I told de Grandin as he, Ram Chitra Das and I disposed of a bottle of champagne in my study some hours later. “I’m frank to admit, though, that what was plain as a pikestaff to you meant nothing to me until you'd pointed it out. But how d’ye account for Austine’s apparent desire to offer herself as a sacrifice? Self-preservation is one of the strongest instinctive urges—”

“In normal people, yes,” he agreed. “But this young woman, like all too many of her generation, is definitely neurotic. We all have a queer streak in us somewhere, and if the streak becomes too wide we ate thrown off our. mental balance. Man’s innate impulse, as we know all too well, is to take, and woman’s is to give. It is this ‘give complex’—a series of emotionally accented impulses in a suppressed state—that fills

out hospitals with nurses, that makes daugh-. ters devote their lives to selfish parents,.

keeps women true to underserving husbands. But when this natural trend in


woman gets out of hand it becomes pathelogical. We call it masochism, sometimes

algolagnia. Very well. Consider: “She is neurotically unbalanced, this Mademoiselle Austine. Guided in the

proper channels her over-developed ‘give impulse’ might have made her a second Florence Nightingale. Alas, it had no guidance. It was left to run riot, and her inhibitions were naturally less strong than those of normal young women. When first we met her in the colony of the Swami I thought that I detected the scent of cannibis Indica—hashish—on her hair and garments. This drug, as you know, has a powerful tendency to increase dormant, sup-. pressed desires, to render them unnaturally—sometimes overwhelmingly—strong. When Captain Chenevert and I went through the Swami’s private rooms we found hundreds of drugged cigarettes— tobacco mixed with hashish—what you call reefers. These he had systematically led his followers to smoke until they had become addicts, living in an unreal world of drug-created fantasy, wholly free from the inhibitions which ordinary sane people possess as brakes upon their impulses, especially their unnatural or ‘queer’ impulses. Yes. Certainly. Of course, “Now, when one takes a sensitive, neutotic young woman and keeps her in a virtually continuous state of drug-intoxication for upward of three months she makes a fertile soil in which suggestion—either good or bad—may be implanted. Constantly, without remission, this so vile Quinault had dinned into her ears the suggestion that she give herself as a sacrifice— that she become Kurban. She had completely lost whatever inhibitions she once had. Her instinct for self-preservation was entirely blotted out, and her natural womanly instincts cried incessantly ‘give— give—givel’ with thousand-tongued insistence, until she felt the only way to happiness lay in offering herself as a sacrifice. “You remember when she told the Swami she would become Kurban? She hesitated for a long moment before she made the declaration, then, allvat.once she:hurst out with the offer of hetSelf''so frenzigdly that she could scarcely make her words coherent. That was entirely symptomatic. So was the

KURBAN

calm that followed when she had made the hard choice. They had so constantly suggested the act to her that her poor drugged brain had come to regard it as inevitable. Natural love of life had fought against the act, but when she’d finally given way and made the decision to become Kwrban she felt a positive relief. The long, hard, losing struggle had come to an end.

“The poor Mademoiselle Santho was less fortunate. Her they inveigled into making a will leaving her fortune to the unspeakable Quinault, then killed her ruthlessly. Mademoiselle Austine was next in line, and when we finish our investigation I am convinced that we shall find that every person ‘in that colony is wealthy in his own right, and able to dispose of a neat fortune by will. Yes, I am certain.

“Some they would have killed as they killed la Santho and attempted to kill Mademoiselle Austine. The others they would


have blackmailed mercilessly, for al] of them were parties to the murders in a way, and would have paid and paid to keep their part in them from being known. But of course—”

“Why did you take those cobras up?” I asked Ram Chitra Das.. “You could have killed them easily enough.”

The Indian grinned amiably at me. “I didn’t serve with the police for nothing, sir. Those snakes alive will make good evidence against Quinault when they try him for the murder of Miss Santho and the attempted murder of Miss Doniphan. They'd have been no use to us if I had killed them.”

"Mon brave,” the little Frenchman complimented. “My old wise one! Morblex, but you do think of everything! Come, Ist ws have another little so small drink” — he refilled our glasses and raised his toward the. Indian—'"‘to your cleverness, which 3s second only to de Grandin’s, my friend!”

Arkham House anmoumees..


A New Book by ALGERNON BLACKWOOD!

An entirely new book by Algernon Blackwood is a literary event. Never before published in any form, the two long stories which make up this new title are representative of the best in super: natural literature. “‘No one has even approached the skill, seriousness, and minute fidelity with which Blackwood records the overtones of strangeness in ordinary things,” wrote H. P. Lovecraft. “The one absolute and unquestioned master of weird atmosphere!” “The Doll” and ' “The Trod” are the first new storics by Algernon Blackwood in almost a decade. One concerns an evil image delivered to a London villa to bring danger to Colonel Masters and his small daughter; the other recreates a strange corner of England where the “gay people” appear in the night to lure away the souls of all who behold them. Our printers promise us this new book in December or January. We would appreciate your order now. The jacket is by Ronald Clyne.

Our other books are going fast.

$1.50. Send in your orders now,

without delay, if you hope to add these books to your library!

fw wn www on oc rn en en eee ee ese mene esecesen

ARKHAM HOUSE, Sauk City, Wisconsin

eee ee ee wees

Please send me the following, for which I enclose payment in full:

copies

. copies of THE DOLL AND ONE OTHER (to be sent on publication), at $1.50. of SOMETHING NEAR, by August Derleth, at_$3.00.

aes coe copies of WITCH HOUSE, by Evangeline Walton, at $2.50. weceeeee COPies Of THE OPENER OF THE WAY, by Robert Bloch, at $3.00.

copies of THE LURKER AT THE THRESHOLD, by Lovecraft & Derleth, at $2.50.. copies of GREEN TEA AND OTHER GHOST STORIES, by J. S. Le Fanu, at $3.00.

TIIt''!) Cobies of THE HOUNDS OF TINDALOS, by Frank Belknap Long (to be sent on publication), at $3.00.

veseeeee COPies Of THE EYE AND THE FINGER, by Donald Wandrei at $3.00.

NNY TALES, by H, S. Whithead, at $3.00.

weseeees COPies Of JUMBEE AND OTHER UNCA S.

ceceeees Copies Of WHO KNOCKS?, ed. by August Derleth (Spring, 1946), at $2.60. cicceeee COMies Of LOST WORLDS, by Clark Ashton Smith, at $3.00.

eisreutis ** copies of MARGENALIA, by H. P. Lovecraft, at $3. 00.

of SLEBR,

© MOR!, ed. by August Derleth, at $2.60

ainctisle se ies 5 Sees copies of “IN REi SHERLOCK HOLMES,” by August Derleth, at $2.50,

Se eee ere essere esseeere eecoeccceseoeee,

FOREWORD

It may be to the credit of the skeptical scientific attitude that no single important group or individual has accepted the sensational account by Dr. Stephen Taussig of the discovery of new, amazing fauna in the San Fernando country at the Amazon’s headwaters. Taussig, sole survivor of the Museum of Living Science Expedition, was plainly deranged when he reached the outposts of civilization. Bits of alleged evidence—a glassy object some ten inches long by six wide, of a pointed oval shape and convex like a cupped hand; a length of coiled transparent tubing, perhaps thirty feet long and tapering from the diameter of an inch to half as much; and a huge bone, unfortunately shattered in transit to America —have invited curiosity, but not diagnosis.

hariots of San Fernando


I came into the mystery by pure chance. I was secretary-companion three yeats ago to John J. Beazle, a wealthy dabbler in exploration and adventure, with some pretension to botanical and zoological education, and sailed far up the Amazon in his yacht, the Tethys. News came of a white man, sick and delirious, at a settlement on one of the uncharted side-streams. We sought the place and found it to be the outpost Cruxite mission of Youmbinque.

Father Hundig, who was caring for the sick man, welcomed our appearance and loans of bedding, ice and medicines. The patient, though wasted, screamed and struggled so that we could not move him from the missionary’s cot. Beazle, not much interested, spent most of the days that followed among liquor bottles on the Tethys, It was I who heard Stephen Taussig’s story, which

Heading by BORIS DOLGOV.

—_

I have tried to set down in his own words from my short-hand notes.

The specimens mentioned above lay near Taussig’s cot. When whole, the bone was as massive as the femur of a dinosaur, some six feet long, with its very center a roughly cubical bulge a foot a thick. Tapering both ways from this central lump, the ends of the bone terminated in spherical knobs, tvoryhard and perhaps eight inches in diameter. As it spindled toward these ends, the bone showed round and smooth but for v-shaped grooves running lengthwise from small holes toward the middle.

It was plainly fresh, to judge from the oily moisture and clinging fragracats of tough flesh. I was surprised to find no sign of terminal cartilege on the knobs. About this and the two crystal pieces clung an odot of rot, strangely and chemically pungent.

Father Hundig told how Taussig and others had stayed at the mission on their outbound trip some weeks before, and how Taussig had returned in a native canoe, alone but for sullen Indian paddlers whom he kept in hand at pistol point. Though seriously ill, Taussig beied the priest to take charge of the specimens the boat carried,

Se raw ak Be

25,

26 WEIRD then collapsed. The Indians paddled away in patent relief.

The recent death of Father Hundig leaves my account almost unsupported, but his diary might prove interesting to scholars with open minds. Meanwhile, here is Taussig’s story, to be reac either as scientific data or mere curiosa. I am not expert enough to ‘suggest which.

I

UR up-river trip was mostly uneventful. All had been well planned and Dooling, who had

pteviously visited this basin, acted as interreter and go-between with the Indians. We ad no difficulty until we reached the confluence of the Caquini.

You must have heard the Indian legends about the San Fernando as a hell peopled with unspeakable devils. We did not fall into the error of disregarding these entirely; savage tabus are often founded on a practical basis. We guessed that in the region were real dangers, perhaps unknown predatory animals, and we hoped to find them and prove how exaggerated folklore can be.

But neither threats nor promises could induce a single native to accompany us beyond the great falls of the Caquini. We were faced with the unsatisfactory job of going ahead without guides or bearers, The solution of the problern was somewhat disquieting.

Two days journey below the falls, we stopped at man’s uttermost habitation, the village of the Chicupes. The natives appeared more apprehensive about the country just beyond than any of the down-river peoples.

Their fear had created a bizarre custom —each year they selected two prime warriors to go as sacrifices into the unknown land. If one of these should survive, they said, for the space of a single moon, his safe return would show that the devils had been ptopitiated. Such a survivor would be rewarded with the chieftainship, But none had. ever returned.

By a fortunate coincidence, the selection had been made only a few days before we arrived, The two young wartiors were undergoing some interesting rites of pusificaTALES

tion before leaving. After tedious negotiations and the paying of substantial bribes, we arranged to go along with the party that escorted them.

We had bearers at least, but with them came disquiet. If two warriors, and of the best, went into the San Fernando yearly and did not return, what became of them? We

_could not guess. Neither, I am sure, can

you, But we found out.

A short distance from the falls we esiablished a base camp. Beyond here our Indians would not go. The next three weeks were uneventful. We set up our field laboratories and explored the heavy forest in widening circles. There was little of interest and less of danger in our findings. Hedrick identified some poisonous plants, there were 2 few snakes and insects, and I shot one wi!dcat. It was like many another district in the jungle.

Our Indians huddled timorously at our base camp, but we overcame our own sense of vague apprehension. How false were these senses of security we were soon to learn.

As we prepared to move on, only the sacrificial braves, Itai and Tubutu, could be persuaded to help carry our tinned foods, cameras and other supplies. This pair, really splendid youngsters, had slept and eaten apart from their friends, and were seemingly regarded as already dead, Camber remained in charge of the base, with instructions to bring every day as much food and other necessaries as he could carry to a certain advance base we chose as point of departure into the unknown. Hedsick, Dooling and I, with the two Chicupes, pressed on.

Nine miles on our journey, among thinning trees that hinted open savannas ahead, I almost tripped over a neat ball of crushed and splintered bones, Just beyond lay the neatly severed head of a Capuchin monkey. As we gathered to look, there seemed to hang about us a heavy odor more suggestive of the chemical laboratory than the jungle. Hedrick, stooping, identified the smashed bones as belonging to the monkey whose head Jay beyond. They were jammed into a rough sphere the size of a melon, broken and pressed as-if. by some namming device, and covered with chemical-smelling slime.

“Looks as if it had been chewed up and

CHARIOTS OF SAN FERNANDO 27

spat out,” commented Hedrick. “But what jaws could crumple a pelvis like that?”

As to the head, it had been sliced off as smoothly as by a machete, and its hair was dry and clean. None of us could think of an animal large enough to take such a bite with, at the same time, such sharp, guillotine-like incisors, We rejected both lions and anacondas. Whatever had _ killed the monkey would be in a class by itself, a class unknown to us, a class that might prove decidedly unpleasant to study.

The Indians showed fright, but only for a moment. Steeped in tradition, they seemed to recognize their brotherhood with the monkey’s remains. Dooling sniffed the air.

“Silico-ethane,”” he said. ‘““Where does it come from?” He lifted some slime on a twig. “Here it is. Silicic acid, or I’m an impostor among chemists.” He scraped some into a specimen can. “I'll analyze it later.”

Hedrick took pictures and we went on.

II

AL THE spot agreed upon, where Camber was to come daily, we made a tempotary advanced base. It was about noon, so we ate a snack, then Hedrick and I struck out for a quick look around at what was beyond. We took Itai with us to carry cameras and boxes, but Hedrick and I were burdened only with rifles and machetes, Dooling said he would go to work with his chemicals and hoped to have a report for us when we returned.

Before us was flat country covered with a short grass. A mile in front and away to the left rose a low range of hills, fairly steep, but round-topped and covered with grass. In the far distance we could make out the hazy blue profile of a mountain range. To the right was a high cliff, about a mile distant at its closest, and running straight away from us for as far as we could see. This escarpment marked a great fault that elevated the country beyond and made possible the magnificent falls of the Caquini, ten miles behind. There was a little watercourse that. followed the cliff down to the Caquini, s HIP EOR:

We were soon out of:the grass and into a thicket of bushes shoulder high. Hedrick stopped in amazement and examined several of the bushes, pulling long pods from them. He shredded the pod, first smelling and then tasting its contents.

“Ricimus, of some sort,” he said in response to my questioning look. “Must be a variety of castor bean, but I never expected to see it growing wild in South America. I think I can chalk this up as my great discovery of the day. Yours will be the monkey-killer, if you can track it down.”

“It didn’t leave tracks,” I said, “I looked for them.”

Hedrick was quite bucked up over his castor beans, I knew what he was thinking, of how nice it would be to see in print Ricinus Americanus Hedriquensis. We all have those little vanities,

The area covered by them was fairly extensive. We reached a little knoll, a foot or so higher than the general level, and we could see that they extended all the way to the cliff, and from the forest on our right to several miles to the left of us. We kept on through them as it was by far the shortest way, A few hundred yards farther on we both were brought up in surprise to find ourselves in a comparatively clear space. The bushes were all down—some uprooted, all of them broken and torn apart and most of the foliaage gone. Lanes led in a dozen directions, like the spokes of a wheel. In these spaces the wreckage of the bushes was appalling. The sight suggested a small scale replica of the damage done by elephants. Here was a new situation to ponder. No one had ever heard of an elephant in this country, and anyway, these would have to be midget elephants.

It was not until we had carefully and minutely examined the ground that we got our first clue, We found wagon tracks!

We checked each of the lanes that led in. Each showed the marks of broad tires with a gauge of nearly six feet! Our previous mystification was nothing to what we felt now. How could there be wagons in an uninhabite! country lying hundreds of miles beyond populated country where even a cart was unknown?: And such wide wagons, and so many, and in such a place?

’ When we had seen all there was to see, we went on, following the wagon trail that led straightest toward the «rater and the cliff.

28 WEIRD

Under foot all the way were the broken and stripped castor plants. Twice before we reached the far boundary of this extraordinary bean patch we came actoss much wider places where other wagons had converged and had destroyed a half acre or so of the plants,

Our trail led more or less straight to the foot of the cliff and we finally emerged onto a wide sand-bed that edged the clear creek which ran along the foot of the bluff. Our wagon wheel marks continued straight on into the water, and there they ended! We could see them for a few feet under water, but beyond the running stream erased them. The creek was hardly fifty feet wide, the other bank of it was a towering cliff, rising sheer three hundred feet.

“What a country!” said Hedrick, wiping his brow, after we had had a good drink of the clear water, and refilled our canteens. “I’m beginning to think those Indians have something.”

After a brief rest, we turned upstream, walking along close to the water where the sand was damp and firm. Presently we came to more wheel-marks. That cleared the mystery for 2 moment. Apparently the driver had chosen to come upstream part of the way in the river. Then we came to an intricate criss-cross of tracks, indicating dozens of wagons, in and out of the river, in and out of the beans, up and down the sand-bed, like a circus lot the day after. We traversed a mile of this, conversing from time to time, chiefly to explode each others theories as fast as one would develop some hypothesis to work from.

Even if there had been a reasonable source of wagons, the maze of markings on the sand would still have been of dubious meaning For one thing, there were no tracks of horses, oxen or other draft animals.

Again, many of the trails were par- -

tially obliterated, as if by a drag. We also decided that the carts were two-wheeled, and of various gauges, from six feet to as little as two. As we stooped to measure a trail through the thicket, I saw something round and whitish, half buried in the sand near the bean stalks. I picked it up.

It was a human skull.

Around the brow was a leather strap, stiff

TALES

cad mouldy, stitched with copper wire—just such a symbol of sacrifice as Itai wore that moment. Beyond lay bones, human but crushed and compacted, like those of the monkey.

I turned to him, with a sign of inquiry. Brave enough, he drew himself up as if at attention.

“Garzus,’” he muttered, and passed his left hand thrice across his face—the Chicupe counterpart of the sign of the cross to avert evil. There were tears on his brown cheeks, and he was afraid—mostally afraid—for all that he was a picked fighting man of his

people. II

Ee was nothing to be gained by lingeting over the relics of the dead Indian; if we were to penetrate the veil of mystery that shrouded these strange deaths we must learn more,

An uneasiness, vague at first, but steadily mounting to a sense of profound apprehension, settled upon us. We had not forgotten those hideous legends. Heretofore we had regarded them as the mad inventions of fanatical witch-doctors or the insane imaginings of superstitious heathens. But now we could not help remembering that no mattet in what other respects the myths might differ, they had invariably spoken of the horror of this land of fiends as the “rolling death,’ and always coupled with that expression had. been the dread word “Garzus’—a word signifying “dragon” or “‘hippogriff.”

The wonder grew on us as we speculated whether there could be in this accursed country a ferocious race of aboriginees who drove chariots after the fashion of the early Britons. Perhaps in this weird and malignant Jand there was a fearsome creature of a type unguessed; could it be that such a monster drew the war-chariots of the barbarous people of this place? We shrank from that solution. We told ourselves that we must not permit ourselves to be swept away by the psychic vagaries of these creduJous savages; that, we must gs¢tain our grip on our common,sense; that we must search, and find more clues until we had found the simple, praetical explanation that our rea»

CHARIOTS OF SAN FERNANDO 29

son told us must lie somewhere behind these grotesqueries.

Abead of us the creek bent outward from the cliff to round a vast hemi-cone of detritus where long ago a section of the diff had been undercut and fallen down. The widened stream’s ripply surface told us that here were shoals that we could cross without serious wetting. Since at this point also there was a convergence of cart tracks Jeading into the river and evidence of their emergence on the other side, we waded Aactoss.

The chariot tracks led around to the downstream face and here we were further astonished to find ourselves in what had every appearance of being a rough quarry. Dozens of half-begun shafts showed where someone had dug into the walls. An inspection of the roughly level floor of the quarry revealed that away from the walls there were a number of mounds of broken limestone and a little slate. Whoever was working here was only interested in the quartz and silicates. On the ground in front of the newest working we found a pile of large quartz crystals mixed with fragments of agate.

I went to pick up a particularly beautiful

iece of stone when to my startled disgust I d it covered with slime. from my fingers I recognized the revolting odor and texture of the stuff that. was smeared on the dead. monkey’s bones. Half nauseated, I hardly heard Hedrick’s cry of astonishment as he pointed to the gobs of jelly lying on the ground on the far side of this collection of rocks, But there they were, enough to fill a gallon bucket, scattered about as if dispersed by the nuzzling snout of some feeding beast. As I wiped my hands, Hedrick collected several pounds of it to take back to Dooling. There was no smell in the air here of silico-ethane; this was chlorine, faint but unmistakable!

“I think we have enough material for one night’s insomnia,” Hedrick said, “and it’s getting late. Let’s go back to Dooling.”

Roe in the trees we found Dooling had

made an imptovised campand had food

cooking, and dtY’a box we'eduld see a beaker and some tesf‘tubes.: “That jelly is a silicic acid,” Dooling anAs it slithered ~

nounced, as soon as we joined him, but just which I don’t know. It appears to be an organic variety and there’s no telling what the formula for it is.”

“Take a look at this, then,” said Hedrick, handing him the jar with the stuff from the quarry.

It proved to be the same,.or closely similar. The last sample was somewhat stiffer than the slimy stuff from the skeleton.

We talked until late that night, but got nowhere with the baffling data we had collected that day. Being together around a cheery fire, and having warm food tended to allay the qualms of misgiving. Tomorrow might bring a solution to part of these riddles,

IV

sa as the next day, we had left two miles of flat plain behind us and were halfway up the side of the first of the foothills. We had already passed three sets of long-dried bones, of antelope, this time. -The layout was always the same; a compact pile of crushed bones, and within three or four yards, a complete skull, these with antlers. Then we found a fresh set, a kill of not later than the day before.

“That monster not only has a big mouth, but it must be fast,” was Hedrick’s comment, “It is no cinch to catch an antelope in an open place like this.”

We examined the grass; there were two distinct trails, one down from the top of the hill, the other up. The up-trail, oddly enough showed the signs of the drag behind it, the other not. There could be no mistake, the direction of the bent grass was conclusive. Outside the lines left by the wheels, we noticed many blades of grass tipped with droplets of a clear yellow liquid. As this golden dew appeared nowhere else, it must have dropped from the hubs of the chariot. Hedrick lifted a drop with a finger, held it under his nose, then gingerly tasted it.

“Crude castor oil,” he grunted.

We followed the trails to the summit of the hill, where we found a long, nearly level ridge, marked occasionally by clumps of trees resembling mesquite. Up here there were many marks in the grass, as if a num30 WEIRD TALES

ber of the vehicles had paraded up and down, and we observed half a dozen places where trails led straight downward.

Following the trails along the summit, we had just passed a clump of bushy trees, when we wheeled at the sound of a stifled scream from Itai.

Ten yards away a face was looking at us.

It was no human face—only grotesquely humanoid—and gigantic. Maybe it was four feet across, with large, dark, lustrous eyes gazing placidly at us. Between them a long nose, flexible as a trunk, twitched, and below grinned a yard-wide mouth, as full of teeth as a shark’s. At each temple clustered what appeared to be curls, and two more clumps showed on top of the head. I was stupid with amazement and horror. I remember thinking that I used to know a barber who looked something like that.

But more ghastly still was the body. It ‘was mounted on wheels, that attached to either side of a plumpness like a sort of owl. There were no arms or legs, only a dragonlike tail that swept behind to steady the bulk. The wheels were pale and solid, like the wooden ones on a Cuban ox-catt.

All that we saw in a flash of time. For

at once the curl-pads on the monster's head unwound and flicked at us—four darting cables in the air. Itai was closest, and those devil’s antennae whipped around his neck, arms and legs, yanking him through the air like a toy on a string. He screamed— once—and then the mouth received him, feet-first, and closed. His head dropped off, neatly severed, and bounced soddenly away., Hedrick and I still stared. These large brown eyes closed as if in ecstasy. The thing began to chew, like a ruminant cow. Hedrick fired first, then J—bullet after bullet from our rifles, at point-blank range.

There was no effect. It chewed calmly. Lead bullets were like peas tossed at a sofa pillow—I saw momentary dimples as the missles struck and glanced off. That hide was tougher than armor. Its covering of glassy scales rang musically when hit.

We fired, perhaps two or three clips each, when the monster was satisfied with its snack. Opening its eyes and mouth, it spat onto the ground Itai’s crumpled skeleton— then looxed at us.

I had some saving instinctive impulse. Dropping my rifle, I swipped out my machete. Hedrick did likewise. The tentacles stretched toward us, more slowly—the thing wasn’t quite so hungry now.

We whacked and slashed. My first stroke encountered a strand almost as tough as wire cable. A second blow, more strong and desperate, cut away an eight-foot length, and bright blood flowed. Hedrick was tangled in two of the antennae, lifting him from the ground as he hacked and hewed.

I rushed, swinging with all my strength, and he fell free, The monster gave a soulshattering howl, and its eyes crinkled shut in pain, huge tears rolling into sight. Three of its four tentacles had been wounded, and fell back into coils that spurted blood. Still screaming, the creature threshed itself about with a sweep of its tail and pushed away. I saw prismatic lights on the scales of the back armor,

We pursued the Garzus—we knew that this must be one—and, scientists even in this hour of peril and fear, we saw that it moved by shoving stubby shoulders against spokelike ribs on the inner faces of the horny wheels. When we came close, we encountered another weapon. ‘The back scales lifted, like hair on an angry cat, and from beneath white smoke gushed upon us. At the same moment the thing hoisted its tail, balancing on its wheels, and coasted away down a swift slope, losing itself behind the clouds of vapor.

It had laid a smoke-screen of silicon - tetrachloride.

Vv

je WAS with decidedly mixed feelings that we turned back to the spot where we had commenced our fight. But for the accident of position, either one of us might have played the role of Itai, and had the animal been less sluggish after its meal, it would have taken a second victim. The Thing was immune to gunfire, and with its four tough tentacles one man could not withstand it, even if fore-warned. He could only hope to'wownd it on bis way into that hopper of a siduth. ont

Knowing now the secret of its locomotion, we perceived that the safest place to encounCHARIOTS OF SAN FERNANDO 31

ter onc would be on level ground. It could hardly move faster than a brisk trot unless folling free. We shuddered to think what our fate would have been if our party had been charged by a group of them while still on the hillside, for we now understood the technique of the beast’s hunting. Yet even on flat ground, the ability suddenly to flick those forty-foot tentacles made them formidable foes, Yet, the Things must have some weakness; we knew we must study them and find a way to conquer.

The pieces of the antennae stank of siliceethane and we observed that they were really thick-walled gelatinous tubes. Just what was the function of the wirte-thin inner duct that terminated in a sort of nozzle at the tip of the tentacle we could not fathom,

We had a brief discussion, and decided to go on to the quarry and begin our observation. Later we would come back and bury the remains of the unfortunate Itai, We scoured the ridge to make sure there was not another lurking Garzus to swoop aown on us after we had begun the descent. Off to the west, the smoke-screen had almost dissipated. Our recent adversary had turned away to the south, several miles upstream from the ford and the quarry.

We found the quarry exactly as we had left it. Sixty feet or so overhead was a hard stratum of sandstone forming a ledge above which we could see the dark mouths of several caves. By grasping at the roots of shrubs growing out from the face of the cliff and taking advantages of the many minor projections we climbed without difhculty to the ledge. Directly under us was the quarry; to the left, beyond the creek, was the sand-bank where the Garzi paraded. We flattened down on our faces, and unslinging binoculars, began our vigil.

Nothing happened for several hours. Once we made out through our glasses another little tragedy on the*hillside we had quit earlier. From the crest of the hill came a flash of light, something like a munaway cannon slid swiftly down to where an antelope was grazing, there was a quick gleaming of silvery lariats flailing the air— and there wagino more antelope. In a little bit, the rolligg thing turaed and slowly climbed up the hill andidisappeared into a clump of trees,

Intent on this drama, we had not noticed the first approach of a herd of Garzi. But soon there were dozens, slowly rolling up and down the sands, while some browsed in the patch of Exphorbiaceae, tearing at the branches of the bean bushes, Among them were many little ones, Garzilli we called them.

The larger Garzi seemed to be engaged in prodding the little ones into promenading, following them closely. Whenever one of the baby monsters would show a tendency to stop or even to slow down, the parent would whack it forward with a resounding side slap of the tail. Now and then an elder Garzus would appear to attack one of the little ones from the side, gripping it firmly with all four tentacles while nuzzling at the near wheel. The Garzillus would make the air hideous with its trumpeting and squealing for a moment, and, then released, it to roll wabblingly away, it’s soft young wheels bending and caving under the infant’s weight.

“Must be teaching ’em to roll!” whispered Hedrick,

In the meantime, several full-grown Garzi had forded the creek and were up in the quarry. We watched their operations with the most intense interest, for of all the clues we had previously found, those in this spot wete the least intelligible.

From our excellent observation post we leartied to distinguish between male and female. The latter were smaller, but the salient difference was in the snout. The female proboscis was much shorter and thicker, and terminated in a cup-shaped tip of bone or ivory. This tip appeared to be quite thin, even sharp, like a tin biscuit cutter,:

\ E COULD not see exactly what they

wete doing among the piles of silicates because usually their scaly backs and tails were to us, but we could see fumes tising and detect the odor of chlorine in the ait. Just what acid or in what manner they secreted it, we shall probably never know, but having poured it out, they waited patiently, From our previous find, we were able to anticipate the result, they were preparing silicic acid. In a while we were to see them eat it, and others follow and tepeat the performance.

32 WEIRD TALES

Virtually prisoners until the hour should come when this herd would move on, Hedrick and I had ample opportunity to digest what we had seen. Finally, we withdrew a distance into the cool inner part of the cave and compared notes.

We were too realistic not to accept the natural explanation of it. After all, the human being consuthes and converts in his lifetime a vast quantity of carbon, salt and other solids. There is small difference between a diet of diamonds and coal and a diet of opals and quartz, It is all a matter of glands and digestive processes.

The Garzus, from its observed diet and excretions, had an affinity for silicon. Its skin and the scales of its armor were siliciculous; it exhaled a silico-ethane, it could produce silicon tetrachloride for protection, and used a silicic acid in digestion. In order to ingest the required amount of the element, it had special glands that enabled it to reduce onyx and quartz to an edible jelly. It was all very reasonable. And it made us anxious to kill and dissect one of the things, Doubtless the more normal diet of animal flesh was to provide the necessary heat for movement Bee the operation of its internal laboratories.

Hedrick and I were in fair agreement as to these theories, but we still had the novel method of locomotion to consider, Nature is a great experimentalist, but this example verged on the incredible. I must have been a little dazed by the rapid events of the last two days, for I must admit that I owe the explanation of it to Hedrick’s keen mind.

But I was to wait a while before receiving it. When we had finished our discussion of the silicic aspects of the Garzus, we went out onto the ledge to take a look. The herd had gone. They had gone through the castor plants, a few were still there browsing on the far edge, the others were slowly rolling toward the forest—toward where Dooling and Tuputu were awaiting us!

VI

ESCRAMBLED down. straight through the ravaged bean growth, crashing through the brittle bushes and acquiring many scratches. As we neared the

far edge, we slowed down, and gripping our machetes and keeping a sharp lookout for the Garzi, but it was not until we had emerged on the other side that we saw any.

The sun was behind us, a circumstance that rendered the Garzi ahead of us exceptionally visible, for the rays reflected from their prismatic backs were brilliant and of every hue. There were three of the glittering creatures, their tails to us, at the foot of a tree by our camp site. We could see the flashes from the snaky feelers that were stripping the lower branches from the tree. We advanced boldly, knowing their clumsiness, but stopped about twenty yards behind them! There was no danger as long as we could stay out of reach of the tentacles, we felt that outside of their radius we could outrun the cumbersome creatures should they turn and threaten us. But they were too intent on what was before them to notice our approach,

A shout from above informed us that Dooling was high up in the tree. He was trying to warn us of the monsters, and said there were several more back in the woods. As he spoke, we saw two rolling toward us, one from directly behind the tree, the other from somewhat to the right of it. We ran to the highest of the nearby trees and scrambled up not a moment too soon, for before we were high enough to be out of reach, we each had to straddle a limb and slash frantically at sinuous glassine tentacles.

I did not succeed in doing more than nick the ones grasping for me, but Hedrick managed to cut away a yard or so of the tip of one, and we heard the yelp and howls of its injured owner with grim pleasure. We resumed our ascent until we came to a roomy fork about fifty feet from the ground. An excited chatter overhead reminded us that we had company. A group of the Capuchin monkeys was huddled there, squeaking and twittering in fright.

Firmly settled, we craned our necks hallooing, until we spotted a khaki patch through the lacery of leaves. That was Dooling perched in his tree, a couple of hundred feet away. After we had cut away some intervening branches so that we: could see better, we observedithat his tree-was not so high as ours, and although he was at about our level, he could go no higher. He, too, had

CHARIOTS OF SAN FERNANDO 33

partners in misery, a pair of monkeys like ours. Shouting back and forth, we gave each other the high spots of the day’s happenings.

Dooling said that Camber had been there about noon with a good load of provisions. They had visited for a while, and Camber had gone back, saying he would return again tomorrow. Dooling went to work on our notebooks. His first intimation of danger was the warning given him about an hour before by the excited Tuputu.

They watched two Garzi approach, and he fell into the pardonable error of trying to shoot them. Ignorant of the uncanny peril in the innocuous looking curls on the heads of the monsters, he continued shooting until the first one got too close. Tuputu charged it with a machete, and Dooling saw him snatched and devoured in one horrible instant. Under the circumstances, he could think of nothing better than to climb the nearest tree.

We told him he done the only possible thing, but that he was safe now. And when we said it, we thought he was. We did not know that the Garzus had still another deadly weapon,

WATCHED the Garzi below us

gtope the lower branches of our tree with their tentacles, reaching, feeling for us, as if they did not trust their eyes. When we next glanced Dooling’s way, we were startled to see that a ring of Garzi about the tree had extended their antennae to the fullest, all pointing at Dooling. They looked in the almost level rays of the setting sun like glistening glass rods. They failed to reach him by about ten feet, but the fumes Wwe now saw jetting from their tips did not. Dooling shouted hoarsely something about deadly gas—chloroform—and frenziedly tried to climb. We saw him cling a moment to a little fork just above his head, then slip away and fall crashing. Like echoes, we heard the thuds of the monkeys as they plopped to the ground beside him. Helpless to do anything, we had to see the inert forms wrapped in tentacles that fell as quickly as cut ropes and witness the greedy tug of war between two rival Garzi who had simultaneously clutched the body of our friend. We turned our eyes away, unable to endure

mote. When we had heard the third of the. shocking clops of decapitating mouths, snapped shut, we knew that Dooling was; now in the maw of the “rolling death” of } San Fernando.

Sick with horror, and despondent over our own futility, we hauled ourselves mechanically higher up the tree. Another: twenty feet and we were among the shuddering monkeys.

Soon we had our gas attack. We caught the odor, but our height and a freshening breeze that had just sprung up made it ineffective. Seeing that we did not drop, the Garzi abandoned their posts below us and’ wheeled off into the forest.

In another hour, the bright beams of the rising full moon illuminated the savanna clearly. Hedrick placed a hand on my arm.

“Let’s go down,” he whispered, “there is at least one more thing we can try.”

He led the way to the other tree, where the scattered remains of our advanced camp lay, rooted and tumbled around by the dragons. He picked up an armful of note books and asked me to do the same. Watching our tread carefully, for somewhere about here lay the heads of two of our fellows, we stalked out onto the moonlit plain.

“Damn the notebooks,” Hedrick muttered, “if this hunch works, we can write a book whose dullest page will be worth a ton of this rubbish.”

He led on. The breeze was quite strorg now at our backs, as if blowing out of the moon behind us. Nowhere was the loom of a bulky Garzus. All about us was grass, and just ahead the shoulder high bushes of the castor bean area.

Vil

ésr\HANK God for the wind,” said Hedrick, fervently. He tore branches from a bean plant and threw them to the ground. Ripping out a handful of leaves from the notebook he wadded them up. I struck 4 match and held it to the paper in cupped hands, Five minutes later, a roaring fire was sweeping away from us toward the cliffs. We ran each way along the edge of the plantation, lighting new fires every few dozen feet. In an hour’s time we rejoined, and stood for a moment watching the wall of

34 WEIRD TALES

flame as it swept toward the river. The crackling of bursting pods and stalks and the roar of the receding flame made a tremendous noise, but we did think once we heard the howling of a roasting Garzus.

We returned at once to our scattered camp. It was fairly light in here now, the moon beams coming through from one side and the ruddy glare of the burning bushes from the other, We rummaged about and fourid a ball of fish-line, and I mounted to our nest in the tree.

Once there, I let the line down, and successively drew up piece after piece of our outfit that Hedrick tied on below. As each item reached me, I would cut off a short length of the line and lash it to a convenient limb. It must have been midnight when Hedrick joined me.

We had boxes of food, six canteens of watet, and some of Dooling’s chemical gear and the first aid kit. We took our belts and rifle slings and rigged safety belts. We were all set for a siege. We could last in comfort for a week. But that night we could not sleep, there had been too many gruesome things happen before our eyes, and too much of interest. And the coming day was to have its sresponsibilities. We must warn Camber, for he would come walking along, innocent of the dangers that surrounded him.

Hedrick elaborated his theory of silicon absorption and recombination, and gave me his ideas on the rolling system of locomotion.

“Until we saw these things,” he said, “we would have staked our professional reputations that a free joint, like between wheel and axle, would be an impossibility in a living thing. The limb cannot have a connection with the body, and therefore would wither from lack of nourishment. But here, all around us, are examples of this impossibility in actual being, Luckily, there is also the evidence which enables us to see how.

“The diet of castor beans serves a double purpose. It provides raw material for the glands of the Garzus which manufacture an organic oil that is both a lubricant and a carrier of living substance to replenish the wheels as they first grow, then wear away. As human body absorbs mercury or lead #f rubbed on the skin, so do these horn wheels

absorb food from the oil surrounding the axles.

“The females have a bony gadget at the tip of their noses. I am confident if we could find a nest of fresh born Garzilli we would find them with soft, flexible wheels of gristle, and without intervening joint. As they get older, the gristle turns to horn, becomes stiff enough to bear its weight, bu* the little thing cannot yet.move about, it must remain motionless in the lair, This is when the mother brings her peculiar nose into play. She cuts a joint. By this time, the castor oil glands have begun functioning. The oil flows into the incision, soothing it, and thereafter acts as lubricant and carrier of building elements to the severed horn.

“Normally, the horn would again adhere to the axle, just as human bones tend to grow together after a serious jo.nt injury We can understand now the purpose of the relentless driving up and down of the little ones by the parents. You even saw on several occasions where a mother recut a joint that might have been beginning to freeze. By the time the Garzillus approaches full growth, it has worn definite bearing surfaces on both axle and wheel, its oil glands have taken over their duties, and the rolling joint ceases to require any more attention than our own elbows.

“But suppose we cut off that part of the food supply which provides the oil, like our burning the bean patch. If, as I hope, that is the only considerable supply near here, it is bound to have profound affects. I anticipate adhesions, perhaps complete immobilizations of the wheels. Stalled in their tracks, they cannot replenish their silicon supply, and the chemical exudations of which they are capable will probably diminish in strength. And, unless some other animal is so stupid as to stray within reach of the antennae, they will also lack the blood food they have been getting.”

This logic seemed to me to be perfect. The one great question was, how long will it take? Snakes can endure months without food. Would we see this herd, its wheels locked, die all about us? Would it take a week, a month, how long?

Our discussions had used up the night. In the fuller light of the breaking day we

Seer os

CHARIOTS OF SAN FERNANDO 35

began to see the monsters rolling toward us, closing in on our tree trunk. They were coming back to finish their work of yesterday. Whatever the ultimate effect of the destruction of the castor plants, in the meantime we must find quicker acting weapons.

VIII AE HASTILY as possible Hedrick prepared a neutralizer for the Garzus chloroform, We tore off our shirts, and were ready to wet them with the solution and bind them to our noses if attacked again.

“Camber is coming here about noon,” Hedrick said, “and they will surely get him. We've got to get down and head him off.”

‘Thad been thinking of that, too. I felt I would as soon die myself as witness another friend gulped down. But there was so little we could do. Now that we knew about the gas, it would be suicidal to descend and try an attack with machetes.

Hedrich produced another beaker from Dooling’s box.

“It doesn’t cost anything to experiment,” he remarked drily. “I am going to mix up a belly-ache for our little playmates. You be thinking of a way to feed it to them.”

He went to work with his bottles, weighing stuff by guess, The bubbling, fizzy concoction looked potent. I wondered if the Garzi would snap up a bottle. Their craving for silica might lead them to. Then I remembered that they did not eat crystals raw, they first dissolved them into jelly. Our medicine must be fed to them some other way. That is when I thought of the poor monkeys. I dug in Dooling’s box and found a big hypodermic syringe, and a can of chloroform.

Busy with compounding our prescription, we were not watching the Garzi, but at the first whiff of the threatening odor, we bound up our faces with the saturated shirts. The stupefying fumes rose steadily to us. A monkey passed out and fell straight down. Another, from just above, crumpled and started to slide by us but I grabbed the limp form and half jammed, half hung it in the crotch of a branch. The other monkeys were hanging desperately to the limbs, groggy, barely conscious. Pouring some chloroform onto a piece of shirt, I clambered around,

putting first one monkey and then another completely out, securing them so that they could not fall. I got a grim comfort out of the condition in which I found them. They were doomed anyway; I could not be blamed too much for using them in the way I had planned, At least there was a promise of vengeance.

As fast as Hedrick could fill the syringe, I brought and held the limp animals until he shot the injection home. I piled the sagging forms around us as best I could on the limbs and branches about us. It took a long time to prepare eight, but eight we needed, one for of our besiegers.

The gas had stopped before we were ready, but the Garzi were still there, staring up at us with those astonishing eyes.

“Let’s go,” I said, and began heaving the bodies down.

is WAS a full ten minutes after the horrid churning before we knew that the gastric juices of the dragons had mingled with our doses. Unprepared for what followed, we almost fell from our perch. Before, we had heard the howls of injured Garzi, when we had hackled at their antennae, but those were as nothing compared to the hideous cacophony that arose now from below. The medley of shrieks, trumpeting, howls and bellowing nearly broke our ear-drums, while the threshing about of the agonized monsters made our tree tremble from its uttermost leaf to the very trunk. Slashing about below, the crystal encrusted tails beat wildly against their mates, against the tree, anything solid. In their frenzy and agony, the creatures’ glands let go with every offensive and defensive device known to them. Gasses squitted from the drooping antennae and from beneath the hard, glittering scales of the back and tail came smoke, the cavernous mouth belched other gasses and vomited gobs of bloody jelly.

It was with grim, sardonic joy that we viewed this spectacle. If the extraordinary structure of the Things had allowed it, they would have wallowed and squirmed, but bound as they were by those colossal wheels, they could do nothing but yowl and thresh about, whipped here and there by the dragonish tails. The exudation of the smokescreen, an instinctive reflex, quickly blotted

36 WEIRD TALES

them from our vision, What foliowed we could only guess at, it was much too thick below.

“I figured they had acid stomachs,” was Hedrick’s bland comment.

After a bit, when the smoke had cleared somewhat, all we could see were a few smoky trails, leading away. If Hedrick’s prescription had proved fatal, they had gone away to their hidden lairs to die. We left the remnants of our field laboratory and the food supplies that were in the upper branches. We climbed down, and machete in hand, took the back trail to the base camp.

We were halfway there when we met Camber. We turned him back and walked along beside him. He was inexpressibly shocked at what we told him, but we could see the gleam of disbelief in his eyes. He heard us out, but as we neared the base camp his revealing comment was:

“It’s a tough country—a good night’s sleep will do you both good.”

We fell onto our cots like men struck by an axe,;

EN we woke Camber felt that he ought to make the usual trip to the advance base. He still believed that Dooling and the two Indians were camped there. We reiterated our story in vain. He persisted in treating us as sick men, spoke of tropical fever and the like, Futilely, as it later transpited, we tried to impress him with the reality of the tragedy we had survived.

A couple of mornings afterward, when we got up for our breakfast, we found Camber gone, We selected the sharpest machetes in the camp and hastened after him. I need not tell you the rest. Six miles away we found the head and the thoroughly masticated bones. The incredulous, as well as the credulous, are sometimes led to fearful ful dooms.

The Garzi, then, still moved about their domain. We got our notes in order, and started to mix more of Hedrick’s prescription, but had used up several ingredients. Because we must, we retreated into the thick forest through which we had first come, knowing that no wheels could follow us there,

Our natives were as nervous as when last we saw them. Perhaps they wondered what

had become of our companions, but none deserted, At the end of a week, Hedrick and I scouted back into Garzus territory.

From the tree that once gave us refuge we surveyed the country beyond. Fire had swept away most of the castor beans. About two clumps that had survived thronged numerous Garzi, apparently fighting over the inadequate supply, We camped that night at the edge of the thick forest.

Next morning we saw none of the Garzi, and no castor beans at all, Venturing into the open, we spotted a grotesque shape standing motionless on the charred plain, and further on another. Approaching the nearest one, we found that it whipped its tail savagely and reached with its tentacles, buf did not move on its wheels. We closed in, gingerly chopped off its tentacle-tips and pressed in to prune them as close as we could.

He could not turn those wheels—they were frozen. After experimental slashes, we sliced away some of his lifted scales. Finally, with repeated stabs in the exposed softness, we'killed it amid weird and mournful howls.

An axe from the camp enabled us to strip away the tough bulk, until we had freed the axle-bone and wheels, While I finished the stripping of the axle, Hedrick, examining some of the exposed viscera, screamed,

I whirled to help him, but I staggered back, choking and momentarily blinded, from a cloud of vile yellow-green glass.

His machete had thrust into an organ, from which the venomous juice had squirted into his face. He was unrecognizeably disfigured by its deadly acid!

if LASHED his body to the axle-bone and from our belts and gun-slings rigged myself a harness, Then, dragging the chassis of the Garzus, I struck along the creek margin toward the falls. I passed stalled Garzi—singly, in groups, once a mother with three young—and with gloomy satisfaction knew that they must linger where they were, to starve for want of castor beans, quartz and blood food. One still roiled, very slowly, after me, but easily I distanced him and came to our base camp.

There stood perhaps a dozen Garzi, the last of their great race. Necessity had driven


them on creaking wheels into this country where for ages they had existed only in legend. About them lay the strewn wreckage of our cam xes, our.valuable notes, instruments. Our canoes were crushed by the blind thrashings of the starved beasts. Up several trees hung some of our Indians, but scattered on the ground were many brown heads of crushed victims.

By now, none of the raiding Garzi could move freely, Casting off my harness, I approached, machete in hand. One after another I cut away the groping tentacles— twice I was nearly snared and eaten—and it was an afternoon’s dreadful, exhausting work,

The surviving Indians watched me, and this conquest of demons before their eyes gave me the prestige with which I carried out the last phase of the adventure. I bullied them down from their perches, made them load a single unsmashed canoe with a few salvaged supplies and the specimens I had saved. The chassis of the Garzus could not go whole, and so I hewed away the wheels, saving only the axle-bone.

The trip down-river to the mission lasted a week, When the Indians, still horrified, tried to desert me and my relics of their


dreaded demon-enemies, I kept them at the paddles with a levelled pistol. And I reached here, and then the cumulation of horror, fatigue and perhaps sickness brought on by that whiff of acid-gas, blacked out everything. * * * & e That is the end of Taussig’s narrative. He came home with us aboard the Tethys. How that heavy axle-bone came to be broken is. one of the mysteries—both Taussig and I think that the Indians who handled it deliberately chopped it up as a magical rite. Anyway, his story did not suit those who heard it at home. The Garzus remains unrecorded’ among the fauna of the upper Amazon, but: it may be that in the future some man of daring and faith will go into the Caquiri country and find those telltale remains.

But before he goes, let him come to me. I know where Taussig lives today—he runs. a taxidermist’s shop on Ninth Avenue, and refuses even to discuss the affair save with me, to whom he thinks he owes much, Perhaps I can persuade him to show the model of a Garzus which stands hidden on a closet shelf in the back of his shop. Even though small and stationary, it is frightful enough to be convincing.

Recapture

By H. P. LOVECRAFT

REE way led down a dark, half-wooded heath

Where moss-gray boulders humped above the mould And curious drops, disquieting and cold,

Sprayed up from unseen streams in gulfs beneath. There was no wind, nor any trace of sound

In puzzling shrub, or alien-featured tree,

Nor any view before—till suddenly,

Straight in my path, I saw a monstrous mound.

ji Half to the sky those steep sides loomed upspread,

gi Rank-grassed, and cluttered by a crumpling fi:ght

yy Of lava stairs that scaled the fear-topped height

In steps too vast for any human tread.

I shrieked—and knew what primal siar and year

Had sucked me back from man’s dream-transient sphere’

».. and sin lieth at the door. And unto thee shall be his desire, and ihou Shalt rule over him.

—GENESIS, IV, 7.

NTHOSE DAYS and in that part of the South I tried to keep out of county seats and other towns of any size. Sheriffs

and town marshals had a way of rounding up

YY P \! GU, Uy

NI

in’s Doorway

BY MANLY WADE WELLMAN |

tattered strangers and putting them on chain gangs. That spring I followed a trail, not much more than a footway, between two hills where the live-oaks and the long-leaf pine shouldered themselves into thickets. There would be clearings in the hollows beyond, and a cabin or two of simple people. They’d recognize me, I hoped, for someone sad and hungry. I'd be invited to eat corn bread—

Heading by FRED HUMISTON


\ \

wNPies's

Ck ANY

\

fried bacon too, if I was lucky, or a stew of squirrel or rabbit. I had not eaten since the morning before, nor very heartily then. Feeling faint, I knelt to drink from a little pencil-wide stream, When I rose, my legs were not so shaky.

Then as I tramped downhill between the path’s scrub-grown borders, I heard voices singing an old hymn. Around the bend I walked, and came almost among the people.

There were twenty or twenty-five of them, overalled men, and women in homespun dresses and calico sunbonnets, and some shock-headed children, They stood bunched in front of a shabby little clapboard church —I knew it was a church by the tacked-on steeple that housed no bell. Next the church was a grassy burying-ground, with ant-eaten


wooden headboards, fenced by stakes and tails. Nobody stood inside the fence. They all faced toward a home-made coffin of whipsawed pine, rough and unpainted.

I hate funerals. I go to as few as I can manage. But I paused to watch this one. Nobody looked sorry or glad, only intent. Beside the coffin stood a tal] mountainy man in worn black, with a grizzled chin-tuft that lengthened his hawk-like face. Perhaps Abe Lincoln would have looked like that, if Wilkes Booth had spared him for twenty more years. That was the preacher, I decided, for as the singing died he began to talk. As my eyes turned toward him, I saw two figures squatting on the ground beyond him and the coffin. For a moment I took these to be old carven”images, like figure-

“,.. assume and take to thyself the sins that trouble the seul of the departed.”



heads from ancient sailing vessels, They looked weathered and colorless, face, hait and clothing. One was a bewhiskered male, the other a wrinkled old female. Neither moved, not even their eyes blinked. But their backs were tense, as though slighting the church. I know Southern folklore, and remembered a bit; witches, the servants of devils, always turn their backs to the house of God.

“It was the will and.prayer of Levi Brett, our departed—brother—”

The preacher had stumbled over that word’ as if he had disliked to speak it. “His will,” he went on, “that we call at his burial for someone to eat his sins.”

I pricked up my ears at that. Sin-eating— the old English had believed in #. There

was something about it in Precious Bane, a

delightful novel I hoped to read again if ever I came among books, and had money to buy them. For pay or for gratitude, a living person assumes the burden of sin borne by a dead one. Then a soul is free to enter heaven, and the sin-eater has years of life in which to expiate that assumed obligation. Once or twice I had heard rumors, just rumors, that some back-country Americans kept the custom.

The preacher paused again, watching his companions. Nobody stirred, except a couple who swayed a little back, as if they disliked the suggestion.

“Levi Brett gave me money as he died,” said the preacher. He produced a wallet. “Here are one hundred dollars. That will go to the one who eats the sin. Also Levi Brett’s house on Dravot Ridge.”

A hundred dollars in cash must have seemed a fortune to those simple hill folk. A heavy-featured, wide-eyed young man started forward at mention of it. But when the preacher spoke of the house on Dravot Ridge, the young man stepped back among his companions. He shuddered, I think; or perhaps they ai] shuddered.

I moved toward them, The preacher looked at me. So did something else, that now I saw for the first time.

je LAY prone by the coffin, brown and motionless. At first 1 thought it was a hound, then I thought it was not. It was hound-size, and lean like a hound; but its


feet were all wrong, big and furry, and ts low, close-drawn way of lying on its belly was more like a weasel. Its eyes did not falter as mine met them. I never saw a dog with ears like those, and the face, what I could see between the wide forepaws, was strange.

“Yes, brother?” the preacher said to me.

“Sir, you ask for a sin-eater,”” I ventured.

He held the wallet toward me. “A hundred dollars and a house,” he repeated, “It is a fine house—so I hear tell.”

“The dead man’s a stranger?” I suggested.

“Not Levi Brett,”” mumbled a voice in ie group. “Not enough of a stranger, anyOw.”

I paused and thought, and tried to decide what sort of thing it was that lay and watched me, there beside the pine coffin. Then I looked back at the preacher, I licked my lips, but my dry tongue would not moisten them

“T’ll do it, if I’m allowed,” was what I managed to say. Since I cannot explain how I began to be nervous and frightened so early in the matter, I shall not try. “I'll do it,” I said again, more confidently.

“Praise the Lord,” a deep-voiced man intoned, and “Amen!” said a shrill woman.

As I walked toward the coffin, the preacher stepped toward me and took my hand in his big, strong bony one. “Let me call a blessing on you now,” he said. “Later, you may be glad of a blessing, brother.” His eyes searched my face. ‘“You are young, you have a look of light. I pray your soul won't suffer out of reason.”

“But you're really concerned for the soul of the dead man,” I reminded, and someone said ““Amen!” I held out my hand. “Give me the money.”

“First repeat,” commanded the preacher. “I—and speak your name.”

“Obediently I did so.

“Do freely,” he prompted me,” and before all living things in this world and the next, assume and take to myself the sins that trouble the soul of the departed Levi Brett.”

I said it all, and wound up by swearing, as he urged, on a holy name. Then he handed me the wallet. It was simply cut and sewn, of some wonderfully soft dark leather. I opened it. Inside were ten ten-dollar bills, of the old large size.

SIN’S DOORWAY

“Levi Brett stands clear of evil,” said the reacher to his little flock. ‘““He may enter ly ground. The Lord’s name be praised.” They burst into song, another old hymn, and six men moved forward to pick up the coffin by wooden cleats that served as handles.

The preacher led, and they carried it past the stake-and-rail fence into the cemetery where, I now saw, was a ready-dug gtave. The hymn finished, and all watched.

From the wallet I took a bill. I spoke to the nearest onlooker, a tussock-bearded old man who looked like photographs of Ambrose Powell Hill.

“T’m hungry,” I said. “Faint with hunger. I wonder if you would—”

“Take that double-damned money away,” he snapped, and his eyes blazed above the hair on his face. “It’s the devil’s price for what you done, You're a man of sin, young fellow, purely rotting away with the sins of Levi Brett you eaten just now. I had nothing to do with him, and I’ll have nothing to do with you.”

I felt weaker than ever, and I began to plead. “Then, if you'll take no money, will you be kind enough to—”’

WOMAN came to the man’s elbow. She

must have been his wife, a tall, strong hill creature. “Young sir,” she said, “I never hoped to turn away a hungry creature. But I can’t give you food or comfort, less’n your sin may catch onto me. I daren’t say more than I pity you. Go on somewhere, where they'll feed you unbeknownst of what you carry. That way, maybe, they'll not lose grace by you.”

“Look,” stammered a young girl, pointing. “Levi Brett's critter—”

The brown animal had risen from where it lay, on four legs that crooked strangely. It pointed a long nose at me, like a trained hunting dog that shows the prey to its master.

“You've taken Levi Brett’s sin. indeed,” said the bearded man, and the glare in his eyes filmed over with terror. ““That thing lived with him on Dravot Ridge, his only family. When he was took sick at the preachet’s house, it came and camped under his window. It layed by his coffin—” He broke off and choked, then spat furiously. “Now

ai

it's yourn. Go—please go! Then it'll go with you!”

Everyone drew away from me, toward the fence. Beyond the rails, the coffin-carriers had lowered their burden into the grave, and three of them were spading earth upon it. I felt icy cold, and tried to lie to myself that it was the assault of hunger. I turned away.

Some children began to jabber a little cadenced sneer, to one of those universal childhood tunes:

“Your soul to the devil,

“Your soul to the devil,

“Your soul to the devil—devil—devil—”

After all, I resolutely said in my heart, they didn’t mean that. Maybe this was originally an Irish community. I knew that Irishmen sometimes said “Your soul to the devil,” for nothing but a joke. I turned and walked, to get away from staring, repelling eyes.

Beyond the clearing where stood the church and the burying-ground I could see trees, denser thickets than those among which I had walked so far. Two trails led into the depths of the timber, and I turned my steps toward one. Something sounded beside me, pit-pat, pit-pat—the brown animal had joined me. It had a long thin tail, and it seemed awkward on all fours, like a monkey. It looked up at me once, more eloquently than dog or cat could manage, and headed for the other trail-head. I went with it.

As the two of us entered the woods, along the dim green bough-roofed arcade that was the trail, I sagely decided where I had seen something like my companion. Charles R. Knight’s paintings, as are to be seen in New York’s Museum of Natural History, or in books like Scott’s History of Mammals in the Western Hemisphere, include several things like that, particularly his restorations of the very early mammals of a million years ago and more. Such things, as I consider them, were developed amorphously, could be ancestors to the monkeys, the dogs, the cats, the hoofed beasts, or to all of these.

DO NOT want to dwell too long on the specitnen that now padded the trail with Me. Its snout was long, almost raccoon-like, but its brow bulged in a way that suggested considerable brain volume to go with those


expressive eyes. Its forelegs-had elbows, its rear legs had knees, and the feet that had seemed like big, hairy lumps bore long toes that could, if necessary, clutch like fingers. I wished it would go away, but did not care to shout or gesture at it.

When I heard human feet behind me, I was relieved, but for a single moment only.

HE two who had sat with their backs

to the church were following me. As I glanced back, the man waved a skeletonscrawny arm and the two broke into a run, uncouth but fast, to catch up. Both grinned, showing broken teeth.

“Let them scary folk huddle together and die of the shivers,” said the man, breathing hard with his exertions. “We'll see that you get food. Yop, and shelter, That is, we'll see you to your own proper house.”

“You did a pure brave thing in taking

the sins of Levi Brett,” added his companion. “I always say, the young got courage and helpfulness.” I could feel nothing but gratitude in this proffer of help and friendship. In my hand I still carried the bill that I had taken from the wallet, and I held it out.

“Thank you, no,” said the man, drawing away. ‘‘We’re doing it for love,’ and he flashed his broken teeth in another grin. “You're one of us now.”

“You mean, neighbors?” I asked, for I thought they might live on Dravot Ridge.

“Just one of us,” said the woman. “Hasn’t Parway taken you up?”

She meant the brown animal, which stood close to my side, faced toward them but with eyes ever upon me. So its name was Parway—I suppose that is how to spell it. A long moment its eyes held mine, then it turned and trotted ahead.

“Follow,” said the man. “It will lead you home.”

The three of us went along. I was glad for what I thought was human companionship. They chatted to me genially enough, asking my name and my home. I gave a false name, and said I had no home.

“You have now,” said the old woman, and she and her companion blended their cackles, as at a delicious joke. I like that sort of tudeness as little as anyone, and I spoke sharply:


“You mean Levi Brett’s house? The one on Dravot Ridge?”

“Well, yes.” The old man made a drawl of it. “Only not exactly. It’s yours now, by Levi Brett’s spoken will. And it’s not a house. It’s a gardinel.”

That word was strange to me. The world will be happiest if it remains strange to the world. I repeated it, rather stupidly: “Gardinel? What kind of a house is that?”

‘A gardinel only looks like a house,” the old man informed me, “and it can only be used like a house, by a few people. There’s lots of gatdinels, young fellow, in towns sometimes, and sometimes in off-way country places like this one.”

“You ever walked along a street, and seen something like a house not built quite true, that seems to look at you with eyes instead of windows?” demanded the woman, blinking up at me. “Houses generally with nobody living in them, that everybody stays away from?”

Of course I had seen such houses. Everyone has, “Usually somebody tells me such a place is haunted,” I replied.

“And usually it’s no more than that,” she rejoined. “But once in a while it’s not a house, it’s a gardinel.”

IHEY were having fun with me, or were

they?... The beast named Parway had run ahead, and now it gambolled uncouthly at a bend of the trail some yards aheads. There was light, that meant a clearing of sorts. I walked toward it, and my companions followed at my heels.

The clearing was not large, and lofty trees grew thick around it. In its very center was exactly the sort of house I had been prepared for, with all that mocking mystery of the old man and the old woman.

I was never to decide what it was made of. Living wood, perhaps, hard and massive; of living rock, very living rock. On its solid walls wete marks as of carving tools. Its two windows hhad sills that were of one piece with the house front, and the lowdrawn roof, that was like a hat pulled down to the eyelike windows, was of a different color but seemed to be part of the same piece, too, The doorway had not been cut oblong, but irregular, rather like a cave-mouth, and all was dark inside. Parway padded up to

SIN’S DOORWAY

the threshold, looked back once to me, and darted in. At once a dim light went on, as if Parway had kindled it. My uneasiness was braced by angry mystification. Like the proverbial fool rushing in, 1 followed Parway.

“I save been waiting for you,” said a deep, caltured voice, and there sat a human figure on a blocky stool.

The one was a man of indefinite age, with everything forked about him—his little divided beard, his joined and upslanted brows, his spiked moustache, hornlike points of hair at his brow. These things were probably makeup to a certain extent—Satan himself wouldn’t have been so lavishly theatrical. The face was gaunt and mocking, with eyes as brilliant as Parway’s; but to look intelligent, there would have to be more forehead. He held out a hand, which I had the instinct not to grasp. His gaunt figure was wrapped in a sort of gray gown.

“You'll be wondering,” he said to me, “just what is expected of you.”

“I do indeed,” was my reply. “If you'll be good enough to tell me—”

“Tell me first,” he said gently, “how much you know.”

I cleared my throat, and wished for a drink of water. “I came to where they were burying someone called Levi Brett. It seemed he couldn’t go into a proper grave until someone, by the old custom, assumed his sins. I did so, because I was poor and hungry, and there was a sum of money offered. Levi Brett’s sins must have been considerable, because nobody wanted anything to do with me. And I let myself be led here, simply because it seemed easier than to go some where else. That's the sum of my knowledge to date, and I'd like to know more.”

“Ah,” said the man with the forked beard, “you deserve to know more, for the sake of the important things you're to do.”

if TOOK time to look at other things than his face. The inside of the house was ‘not properly angled. Walls curved, and junctures at ceiling and floor seemed blunt, There were beams and rafters interestingly tacked on, like ribs enclosing the body cavity of a disembowelled carcass. Beside the stool on which my new acquaintance sat there was only a desk, covered with papers. In a corner Parway had slumped down into that strange


prone position of rest, eyes glued to me, I had a sense of growing disgust, as though I smelled something rotten,

“Permit me,” said the man with the forked beard, “‘my name is Dravot, of the family for which Dravot Ridge is called. And you?”

I gave him the name I had invented for the unsavory couple outside in the clearing. He nodded.

“Let me be simple, though I doubt if the situation can ever be simplified enough to be explained in ordinary words. Levi Brett was—shall we say—brilliantly unusual? Or unusually brilliant? He knew many things, of the sort that weaklings of the ordinary world call forbidden or horrific. This dwelling is the repository of much knowledge. I know relatively little, for I was only his— well, his secretary, his aide. And the two outside are, frankly, stupid underlings. But let us not belittle their courage in accepting Levi Brett’s acquaintance and leadership.”

“You promised to be simple, and you're not,” said I. “Was Levi Brett some sort of sorcerer or wizard? Is that why the people at the church hated his sin?”

“That is exactly the explanation that will do for the moment,” smiled Dravot, as if in applause. ‘“You will know better and better, as if dimensions are added to your mind. You have gifts, I daresay, that he lacked. You will carry on what he strove for, the bringing of people hereabout to our way of interesting truth.”

IHAD actually forgotten my hunger.

About me was a close warmth, a sweaty smell that seemed to go with the carcasscavity form of the apartment. “I take it that Levi Brett did not make many converts to your beliefs,” I said.

“It was deliberately that he set up in this community,” said Dravot. “Knowledge that supernatural powers exist is part of the Southern hill culture. But with that knowledge goes fear. For many years Levi Brett did his wonders, and he attracted only me and the two out there. We know what power is possible, but the others refuse to know or even to surmise. They hated him. And even I—a native, of a respectea family —haven’t dared go among them for years.”

“Levi Brett turned against all these things you tell about,’ I said suddenly. “He died


at the preacher's, and left money to buy someone to take over his sins.”

There was a sudden storm of cackling laughter from outside, where the old couple were listening. Dravot laughed, too, and pointed his finger.

“Ah, ah, ah,” he said, ‘that took in the fools, but I thought you’d see. Must I explain that, too?”

“You must,” I told him, ‘and seriously. I don’t like to be laughed at, Mr. Dravot.”

“Forgive me, then. We'll be good friends later. But to explain: Levi Brett knew he must die. He hoped for a son to inherit his knowledge and work, but, for many decisive reasons, he never fathered one. He only pretended to repent—he sought out the pteacher deliberately when he felt his last hours upon him. That old ceremony of sineating made you his heir, my young friend. You take over his possessions, his knowledge, his work. Good fortune to you.”

I gazed at him, uncomprehending. He waved his hand at the papers on the desk.

“Some of these things you may read, but not all. Paper wouldn’t contain them. The knowledge, I say, is in this house. SI here, dream here. Levi Brett’s knowledge will grow within you.”

I shook my head. “This has gone far enough,” I said. “I dislike practical jokes. For you, as I see it, there is only one way to teach you manners.”

Stepping forward, I lifted my fist. I was going to hit him.

EDID not move, but Parway did. The

lithe, strangely made body swooped in front of me. The long jaws opened, and triangular teeth, lead-colored and_toxicseeming, gtinned at me. I stopped, dead, staring.

““Parway disagrees,”’ said Dravot. ““Meanwhile, if you think this is all a joke, how do you explain Parway?”

“Some sort of freak or hybrid,” I said Jamely.

Parway glared, and Dravot chuckled.

“He understands. He is not complimented, and I don’t blame him. Parway has an interesting origin—you'll have read of such things, perhaps. Old demonologists called them familiars.”

I had heard the word. Strange entities,


given as companions and partners in evil to such persons as contracted to serve heli... but nobody had imagined anything like Parway.

“Suppose you think these things over,” Dravot went on, rather patiently. “I'll leave you. It’s evening. I wish you joy, young sir, of your first night in your new quarters.”

He got up and strode away. The two outside followed him from the clearing. Light was dying there, but strengthened inside. I saw its source, a great candle in a wall bracket, a candle black as tar that burned with a strong white light like carbide.

My early faintness returned to me, and I sat on the stool. If I could but have some food: sas

And there it was, on the desk at my elbow.

Parway looked from me to the well-filled tray. Had he brought it from somewhere? I could not see clearly at first, then stared. One steaming dish held a sort of pilaffe. Another cutlets half-hidden in savory sauce. There was a crusty loaf with fruits baked into it, a massy goblet of yellow metal that held dark liquor. In a deep bowl nestled fruits I did not know, but their colors were vivid and they gave off a delicious odor.

I started to reach for the tray, and paused, for my hand trembled so violently. That was when something—somewhere—betrayed its eagerness clumsily.

For the tray edged toward me on the table, as if it crawled on slow, tiny legs.

I sprang up, sick and dizzy with startled fear. The movement of the tray ceased abruptly, but I had seen. I would not have touched the food then, not though final starvation was upon me. I kicked out at the desk and overset it,-tray and all.

The tray vanished, and the dishes, before they struck the flat, dull, solid floor. Parway looked at me bitterly, then reproachfully, and slunk to a corner. I sank back on my stool, wondering furiously.

That feast that had come at my mind’s silent bidding, had vanished when I rejected it—there was precedent for such things in the history, or pretended history, of magic. Did not the witches gorge themselves luxutiously at their meetings, which the scholars call sabbats? Was not such gorging a kind of infernal sacrament, which bound the eater

SIN’S DOORWAY 45

to his nasty worship? I congratulated myself on my refusal.

For now I was believing the things that had been told me.

HE NIGHT that closed in would be chill, I knew, but inside the room the air grew warmer, if anything, and closer. Parway, still crouched in the corner, gazed at me expees I hated that steady stare, direct ut not honest. Turning my head, I saw the papers spilled from the overturned desk. Stooping, I lifted one.

The first word my glance caught was “gardinel,” and at once I began to read with deepest interest:

“They may be small or large, conventional-seeming or individual, according to the words said and the help asked. Choose the place where one will grow, mark the ground plan, scatter the meal of the proper plant, and say—”

There was considerably more, but I would do humanity a disservice to write it here, even if I remembered correctly. Suffice it to say that it spoke of houses, or things like

es, being rapidly grown from nothingness like a sort of fungus. I remembered what I had heard earlier on the trail to Levi Brett's lair, the words of the old man: “A gardinel only looks like a house, and it can anly be used like a house, by a few people. Was I to be one of such people? Had my declaration that I assumed Levi Brett’s sins made me a creature of sorcery, whether I wanted it or not?

“I won't have this,” I said. “I’m going.”

Rising, I started for the door, but again Parway moved before me. His teeth bared, he crouched low on his rear haunches and lifted his forelimbs. His paws spread their toes, like clumsy hands to strike or grasp, = I could not find the resolution to attack

im.

“What do you want?” I demanded, as if

he would understand. And he did understand, and pointed with a paw, to the scat- -

tered papers. One blew toward me, or I thought it blew. Perhaps it crept of itself. I did not touch it, but bent to read the writing:

“Prepare the mind to receive knowledge. Empty yourself of your own thoughts. Then—”

My eyes read those words, and in the same moment my ears heard them—whether from without or within, how shall I say now? It’s all very well to accuse me of hysterical imagination; but if it’s easy to be cool and analytical in such a crisis, try it yourself some time. What I do remember

_ well is the script on the page, crabbed but

clear and black, and the quality of the speaking, deep and harsh and metallic, like the voice you would expect from Frankenstein’s monster.

I straightened up and turned away, muttering a curse. Probably I should have spoken a prayer instead. Empty myself of my thoughts—and what would take their place? The thoughts of another, the things Levi Brett had known, thoughts which still crowded, bodyless, in this awful room and waited for a mind into which to slide themselves. Then I’d be Levi Brett,

DID not want to be Levi Brett. I did

not want the knowledge with which his thoughts were freighted. Anyone, even a skeptic, could see how fatal that would be. “You take over his possessions, his knowledge, his work.” Dravot had told me that. I would live in this house that wasn’t a house, eat foods of which I knew not the name that came from I knew not where. My companions would be Dravot, Parway, one or two of the God-forgotten among the natives. 1 wanted no such legacy. How to reject it, and remain what I had been, a starved and wretched wanderer?

The food, I remembered, had vanished. That was because I had refused it. Perhaps I had a clue to the procedure. I turned toward Parway.

“Go away,” I commanded. “Go away, and let this house—what they call a gardinel —go, too. And everything else. I reject it.”

Parway showed his teeth. This time he smiled, worse than any human being could manage. He laughed, too—no, someone outside laughed. Dravot was lounging just outside the door.

“Show grace,” he bade me, tauntingly. “You can’t turn back from us now. Accept. How else can we have you for. our chief?”

“T’m no chief of yours,” I said. “I refuse to be.”

“Too late.” He pronounced the words

46 WEIRD TALES

with a satisfaction that was downright smug. “You can’t give back what you've taken. From now on you'll live here, think here, work here. Open your mind, and cease to be a fool.”

From the darkness beyond him came a pate of voices. The disgusting old couple

ad come back with Dravot, and they prayed..

Id rather not repeat the prayer, or the names it invoked. I put my hands over my ears.

“TI not listen!” I shouted. “Let me out of here!”

Jumping to the threshold, I struck at Dravot. He bobbed easily out of danger, and I started into the open after him. At the same time something clawed and clutched at me from behind—the paw of Parway. It scrabbled and wriggled like a knot of gnawing worms, indescribably filthy. Then, I thank heaven, my ragged old jacket tore in the grasp he fastened upon it, and a moment later I was out in the clearing,

I wanted to run, but I knew I must not. I could not endure another seizure from behind. Anyway, the horrid old man and woman stood at the head of the one lane through the thick-grown trees. Abruptly I threw off the remains of the torn jacket and kicked them aside. With both hands I caught a stub of dead branch and wrenched it free from its parent stem. I poised it like a club. There was a strange flowing into me of resolution and rightness.

“Come on now,” I challenged Dravot.

“PIL flail the grin off of your face. Bring ©

those two swine with you, and Parway if he dares. I'll fight you all four.”

But they did not come. They stood where they were—Dravot nearest, the two oldsters by the trail-head, Parway squatting uncouthly in the lighted doorway. Their four pairs of eyes gazed at me, glowing greenly, like the eyes of frightened flesh-eating animals.

“You're not being fair,” Dravot stammered, and I found the strength to Jaugh at that.

“Fair!” I echoed. “Fair, after you tried to trick me into this deviltry?’”’ I lifted the stick. I felt strong.

“He did it,” mouthed the old man beyond Dravot. “Chance, or some butt-in power from somewheres—he grabbed a hazelnut branch!”

“But we called lightning to blast it dead:” quavered the voice of the old woman.

“Jt stood because, dead or not, we couldn’t touch it,” Dravot flung at them. “Shut your mouths, or he'll guess.”

i HAD guessed. Hazelnut, I had armed myself with hazelnut, a tree of force against ill magic. What says Albertus Magnus? I’ve looked it up since, and found it in his writings, not once but in many places. Cut a hazelnut stick, and therewith strike the witch or wicked being... something like that. <

“You're all dirt,” I raged at them, “and I'll plant hazelnut over any of you that dares face me.”

Dravot had sidled forward, but kept out of reach of my stick. His foot gingerly touched my torn jacket, kicked it toward me. “It’s yours,” he said. ‘Take it back.”

“Let it lie,” I replied, wondering why he insisted on such a thing at such a moment.

“Take it back,” he repeated, and lifted the rags on his toe. For an instant light from the doorway picked out something, the dark wallet of Levi Brett that protruded halfway from a pocket.

“I won't,’ I snapped. ‘That money is one of the things I want to give back.”

“He knows!” squealed the old woman, and the old man slapped his skinny hand over her mouth. Dravot cursed her in words that made my scalp tingle. With a kick of his foot, he threw the jacket at me. It soared like a tatter-winged bat.

I struck at it with my club. It caught on the end and flapped there for a moment, then went sailing back, full into Dravot’s face.

He screamed, as shrilly as the old woman could have managed, and pawed at the fabric with his hands. It had wrapped itself around his face like a net. I heard his muffled pleading that someone set him free, but nobody moved. The old man and woman had run away up the trail, and Parway drew back inside the house-thing. J stepped close to Dravot and began to beat him.

“Why didn’t you take the money, if taking it meant such great power?” I yelled as my stick thumped on his swaddled- head.

SIN’S DOORWAY

“You were afraid—or what? Things too evil for you?”

He tried blindly to defend himself. His outflung hand once grasped my stick; but he let go at once, with a howl as though electric current had run through him.

“Parway! Parway!’’ he cried, and Parway emitted the one sound I heard from him in all the incident. It was like a sound, human in quality but wordless. Dravot, still pawing at the clinging coat around his face and head, turned and stumbled in the direction from which Parway’s voice had come. “I rejected that money,” I called after him, “and it has fastened on you. Now you can’t let it go. Suffer from your own sins and those of Levi Brett!”

As Dravot reached the threshold, Parway ran from him, back inside. I saw him as he lurched against the wall, and he jarred the great black candle from its bracket. Dravot stumbled blindly, sprawled through the door, and lay still there. He must have fainted.

HE candle no more than struck the floor

when flames burst and bloomed like flowers from a stage magician’s trick rosetree. Something in the construction or material fed those flames like suet. They sprang and spread everywhere. Parway, cut off by them from the one exit, scrambled back into a corner that would not long remain unkindled. Dravot lay, still motionless, even when tongues of fire lapped eagerly across


him. The fire was dark, giving off oily wisps of smoke. I retreated, toward the Jane up which the old couple had run away.:

I departed, feeling my path in the dark with the hazelnut stick. I tried to rationalize, even though the matter was not rational.

Everything had centered around Levi Brett's bribe-money, which had doomed me when I accepted, which freed me when I thrust it away. The evil had been desperate when Dravot, as unprepared as I, came in contact. It had fastened upon him like a snake.

What now happened to him, in the heart of the burning, meant that I was spared the curse. I groped along as swiftly as I could. After moments, I heard a noise, a long quavering whoop or wail—not Parway, certainly not Dravot. The house, the thing called a gardinel—if it lived, could it feel? If it felt, could it scream its pain of fire?

I made myself run. I kept running until I was beyond earshot. Then I slowed to a walk again.

My weakness and hunger returned, and I had to brace my spirit to endure them. I must keep going until morning. By then I might have come to some other district among the hills, where nobody would guess that for an hour I had been in the grip of cursed magic. People would see me for a starved stranger, and offer me something to eat.

WEIRD TALES for MARCH



° ALLISON V. HARDING °


and other w-e-i-r-d fiction favorites

Out January First

Sena

HE potted plants on the window sill should have given me a clue, but they didn’t. After all, they were innocent enough—hardy green vines that added a note of coolness and cheer to the spartanly furnished sanitorium room, Perhaps I wouldn’t have noticed the vines at all, but Myra herself called them to my attention, She had not spoken of them. It was only that occasionally when we were talking, her eyes would wander, almost as though against her will, to the plants. She would stare with peculiar intentness at the vines for a few seconds, and then turn away with an effort. Once I thought I detected a shudder as Myra seemed particularly engrossed in the vines. I meant to ask her if

the plants annoyed her and she wished them removed from the room, but at that moment she had started a train of conversation that had banished the odd little incident from my mind for the time. Upon recalling it later, I

A doctor must fwst know the disease before he can prescribe treatment— and where in the world was there an illness like this?


decided that Myra’s preoccupation with the window plants could have no possible relation to her illness, and if she wished the vines removed, she had only to speak to Nurse Wilkins.

I hadn’t known Myra was returning to

this country until that evening in middleMay, when, upon entering my home, hot and weary after a stiflingly hot day filled with the round of calls that are the lot of a doctor in a small suburban town, my good housekeeper handed me a note. It was from Myra, stating simply that she had taken a suite of rooms in a fashionable rest sanitorium in the nearby city, and wished me to call on her that night.

Myra Bradshaw in a rest sanitorium! To say that I was surprised is putting it mildly. Anyone who has read either the Sunday magazine supplements or the scholarly journals of scientific societies will readily recall Myra Bradshaw—beautiful and world-renowned as the famous woman African explorer.

Her exploits were sensational enough to make her a natural subject for the bigcirculation, luridly illustrated Sunday magazine sections, while her keenly intelligent monographs on archeology, anthropology and natural history had won her acclaim and respect in that comparatively small citcle of men and women who subscribe to the reputable journals of geographic and scientific societies,

Myra Bradshaw was a woman of dynamic spirit and energy—a woman who had dared a thousand perils, faced a hundred jungle dangers and had exposed herself to a score of dread tropical diseases—and had never been ill a day in her life! This I had long marveled at from a professional standpoint, for it was my interest in archeology and the fact that our families had been friendly for many years that had drawn Myra and me together, not my profession, Indeed, Myra had more than once sniffed that she had as little faith in modern MD’s as in African witch doctors!

Nevertheless, I concluded, Myra’s latest African trek had proved too much even fo: her, and she had been forced to retire to the sanitorium for a rest. After a little reflection, I realized this was not too surprising, The years were taking their toll, that was all. Such adventures as Myra indulged in were for the young, and while Myra was by no means old, she was, I mentally calculated, closer to fifty than forty.

Heading by A. R. TILBURNE


50 WEIRD TALES

il Paes stars were gleaming with tropic brilliance, as I climbed into my car and drove the twenty miles to the city, after receiving Myra’s message. In all my sixty odd years I can’t recail a summer to equal the oppressive, unhealthful heat of that one which marked the reappearance of Myra Bradshaw in my life. The heat came early in May and remained with unslackened intensity late into September. Nor was it a summer oi drought.

Most crops did unusually well for they were nourished with sunlight of furnace intensity and watered by frequent, sultry, torrential rains that soaked the steaming earth into a jungle-like morass. It was a season of rampant vegetable growth.

That night the heat was only slightly less than it had been at mid-day. In the reflected light of the moon, there seemed to be reflected something of the heat of the sun, from whose direct rays this little patch of earth had temporarily turned. The crickets, suffused with the abundance of heat and earthly moistures, filled the night with the din of their scraping. With a shudder J recalled reading somewhere that for every human being on the earth there are twelve million insects. Although the road was lonely, with almost no traffic, the night seemed suddenly crowded.

Nurse Wilkins, whom I knew from previous visits to the sanitorium, showed me the way to Myra’s suite, I stopped short inside the doorway, finding it difficult to believe my eyes. Could this be Myra Bradshaw? The Myra Bradshaw I had known had been handsome and splendidly formed, radiating perfect health. The figure on the bed was that of a thin, gaunt woman, wasted and wan.

With an effort I endeavored to conceal the very real shock I had suffered. I moved toward the bed, stretching out my hand to clasp Myra’s. Yes, it was Myra Bradshaw. Her eyes were unchanged, daring, inquisitive, beautiful, their deep hazel flecked with pure gold. They smiled at me now, and from the pale lips came an invitation to

_ make myself comfortable in a chair near the bed.

Myra and I chatted for the better part of a quarter of an hour, but all the while another part of my mind was busily conjecturing.

What had happened to my old friend? What had reduced her to her present pitiably weakened condition? Why had her hand been so icily cold when I had clasped it in greeting? Although the air of the room was constantly, though gently, circulated by several electric fans, and the three large windows were thrown open to the night, the room was stiflingly hot. Yet Myra’s hand was cool—cool as—and I recall] now with horror and loathing that the homely old simile ran through my mind—cool as a er.

pees employing what I fondly be lieved to be clever conversational strategy, I steered our talk around to Myra and her sudden and wholly unexpected appearance in the sanitorium, Myra laughed, her eyes twinkling with some of their old merriment. “You old faker, you! I know you've been dying to ask me what I’m doing here, and what’s wrong with me to put me in a state like this—flat on my back and weak as a cat!”

I admitted I was, ey

“Well,” replied Myra more soberly, “I’m here as a last resort. But I don’t want to tell you anything until you have made a complete physical examination. Can you do that in the morning?”

J assured her I could arrange my morning schedule to take care of the examination.

Great as my curiosity was, Myra remained firm in her determination to discuss her condition no further that night. After a few more minutes I realized that any attempt to extract additional information from her was futile, so with a sigh I bade her goodnight, promising to see her at ten the next morning.

As I drove home through the heat of the night, noting the forked prongs of light that darted above the black treetops on the distant horizon, I wondered with mingled cutiosity if cooling rain would make sleep enjoyable that night, and what the physical examination of Myra Bradshaw would reveal in the morning. By the time I reached home, it was quite late and the stupor of the heat, combined with the monotony of the night sounds, and the fatigue of the long day, oppressed me with an utter weariness so that I soon sank into a deep and dreamless sleep.

SEED 51

Hi

ak COULD'’VE told you, Tom, that there is nothing organically wrong with me, but I knew you wouldn’t be satisfied until you had made an examination.”

It was shortly after noon the following day, and I had just completed my examination of Myra Bradshaw. Myra was right. I had to admit that my thorough check-up had revealed no trace of any disease, nor could I detect any serious organic impairment. I mopped the perspiration from my brow and sat down beside the bed.

“But Myra,” I protested, “there must be something that brought you to your present state. Haven’t you any idea—how did it start?”

The woman in the bed smiled at me. “Tom,” she said, “if I told you what I suspect is wrong with me, you'd hurry me out of here into the nearest mental hospital. So I'm not going to tell you—not now. I will remain here under your care, and perhaps you will be able to help me. I may be wrong, you know, and I wouldn’t want you poking fun at me for the rest of my life, if I told you my suspicions—and then disproved them by recovering!”

I didn’t press Myra to tell me what was on her mind. I knew she would confide in me, if she believed her story would be of any aid in treating her. And too, I had some idea how full the jungle is of superstition, and I supposed that not even a woman of Myra’s fine intelligence could entirely escape being touched by it after spending years in the African wilderness. So I forgot whatever jungle jargon Myra might be harboring in her mind, and concentrated on restoring her health by modern medical science.

The two weeks that followed were ones of continuing intense heat and increasing worry and frustration for me. Nothing that I did helped Myra in-the slightest, I visited her daily, and was forced to watch her waste away visibly before my eyes. I consulted with the foremost specialists in America. I investigated, probed and experimented. 1 forced and ultimately discarded theory after theory. I spent Jong hours after midnight reading in the sultry, night heat of my library, hoping that in my books I would find some clue that would start me on the

right trail to solving the riddle of Myra’s steadily weakening condition. As the days lengthened into weeks, I was forced to admit I was beaten. In despair I realized that a doctor must first have a disease, before he can prescribe a treatment. I couldn’t find any disease. The only enemy I had to combat was Myra’s extreme weakness, which increased progressively and was obviously induced by her apparent inability to derive nourishment from food. I prepared for her every known variety of energy extract, food concentrate and vitamin-mineral compound, but it was of no avail. My patient ate and drank regularly but for all the good the food did her she might have been on a starvation diet. I was forced to the unscientific conclusion that in some weird, inexplicable manner Myra Bradshaw was being robbed of blood as fast as her food was turned inte the life-giving fluid.

The case baffled me completely. It was unreal and nightmarish, and combined with the relentless heat, it caused me to endure many sleepless nights, through which I tossed. and turned, damp with perspiration and weary with conjecture. In the black of those heavy, sultry nights, my mind flew off on wild tangents, recalling legends of vampires and fantastic blood-sucking creatures of the jungle. This illustrates very well, I believe, just how thin the veneer of modern learning is, and how it can be rendered even more superficial by climate and temperature.

VES Myra’s condition was growing steadily worse. I could not give up hope of saving her, but my dismay mounted as I was forced to watch her weakness increase. It was early in August when the sweltering heat had reached its peak, that Myra entered that most dangerous stage in which she lapsed into prolonged comas, regaining semi-consciousness only long enough to take a bit of food. With despair I realized that soon she would lapse into a coma from which there would be no rousing. Death would slip up on her quietly as she siept—and there was nothing I could do. Perhaps intravenous injections would sustain her for a time, but even su her life would soon hang on the hands of the clock.

At a few minutes after eleven o'clock, on the night of August fifteenth, I was in

52 WEIRD TALES

my library studying a recently acquired treatise ou rare diseases of the tropics, when my phone rang and Nurse Wilkins, speaking from the sanitorium, informed me that Myra had regained consciousness a few minutes before and was asking for me. Wilkins stated further that my patient seemed to have more strength than she had shown for weeks, and was asking for me with a strange persistency. I told Wilkins to remain with Myra and I would leave immediately for the sanitorium.

I will never forget that drive to the city. The night was-black and velvety, and the air seemed to be composed of a heat that possessed actual substance and weight as it pressed down on the smothered earth. Any gleam of stars and moon was blotted from the skies by a black shroud of sultriness.

As I drove down the highway, few cars passed me, and except for the night cries of of the insects, I was alone in the night. On either side of the road grew fields of corn and truck gardens of tomatoes, cabbages and other common table vegetables. Never had their been such luxuriant crops. The farmer’s only problem was insects, which the heat and moisture favored impartially with the crops,

No doubt it was my own weariness, born of the lateness of the hour, the cumulative enervation of the long weeks of intense heat, and my constant worry over Myra that brought on the extravagant fancy as I drove through the deserted night that the world was intent only on vegetable germination and growth, and that for the time being everything else was of minor importance— swept aside, as it were, from the normal, natural course of life, It was almost as if I could hear the faint crenulation of the leaves as they unfolded, and the rustling and crackling of the stalks and ears as they grew. In the pall of the night there was something repellant, grotesque about the great swellen tomatoes that bulged on the creeping vines, filling the air with their unmistakable vegetable reek.

I shivered in spite of the heat, as my car carried me down the corridor of towering grain. I felt strangely lonely, like an alien being—an outsider in a world of vegetation, where the sole purpose of existence is to grow, grow and grow in the beaming rays

of the sun and the secret moistures of the sultry nights.

Ii

EWAS a few minutes past midnight when I entered the lobby of the sanitorium and made my way to Myra’s suite.

Wilkins, who had been sitting by the bed, arose and quietly greeted me as I entered. A gteen-shaded bed-lamp standing on a table was the room’s only illumination. Gently moved by the electric fans, the sultry night air of the room stirred with an almost liquid motion.

The figure on the bed was pathetically wasted. There was almost no resemblance to the handsome Myra Bradshaw who had stirred the imagination of the world with her beauty, bravery and daring. As I gazed at the pale face, the eyes opened and on seeing me they lit up with an animation they had not shown in weeks.

“Come closer, Tom,” the bloodless lips whispered. I seated myself on a chair at the side of the bed and bent my head over the still form.

“You sent for me, Myra?” I asked.

“Yes, Tom,” replied the thin voice. “lI want to tell you my story. It is now or never,” she added with a suggestion of the grim, brash humor that had been so much 4 part of the old Myra Bradshaw's great charm.

“Plenty of time, Myra,” I said, patting her emaciated wrist. “You are better now than you've been for days.”

“You know that’s not true, Tom,” the woman replied. “This is only the final flash of light before the darkness, There is verv little time left. Let us not waste it. You must hear my story.”

“Very well, Myra,” I assented. “I'll listen, only don’t tire’ yourself.”

“J haven’t spoken until now,” the woman began, “because I did not believe what must always have been the truth. Tom, you were right when you suspected that the jungie was responsible for my condition; but you were wrong in searching for a disease. It 1s no malady that afflicts me,.. at least no ordinary malady!” Myra paused briefly and then her pitifully weak voice continued.

“It began less than a year ago. I. was in

SEED 53

Leopoldville, when I first heard rumots of a strange village of natives deep in the Belgian Congo, who worshipped a flower, periodically sacrificing the fairest maiden of the village to this flear de mal. Theatrical as the story sounded, I knew Africa well enough to suspect that the rumor very probably had a foundation of truth. I determined to be the first white woman to penetrate to this little known village of the interior, as well as the first white woman to set eyes on this jungle flower of God. Well, it was the old story. The natives were suspicious of strangers; they had not seen more than half a dozen white men in their lives, and I was the first white woman they had ever seen. They resisted our visit, attacking our bearers, We were forced to wound a few natives to make them behave and to convince them of the effectiveness of our modern arms, Later, of course, we treated and healed their wounds, so really we did them no harm.”

Mo paused in her recital, a far-away look in her eyes as she relived for the moment that last weird adventure. Gaining strength to continue, she picked up the thread of her strange story.

“We had no difficulty in locating the temple of the Flower God. It was a bower of unearthly beauty, teeming with such riotous colors and growth as only the jungle can generate, It was nature’s own Gothic cathedral with towering walls of infinitely foliated leaves, climbing vines, massive pillars of trees and a green filigree of creepets. Its stained-glass windows were woven of thousands of exotically hued petals.

“I had come, bearing in mind the stories of human sacrifices, fully expecting nothing less than a monster, carnivorous plant—a fly-catcher plant on a giant scale. But I was wrong. There was no such plant. Instead, on an altar-like dais of the cathedral blossomed one, small, red flower. At first sight, I was disappointed. It might have been any one of a thousand jungle flowers. But upon approaching it more closely, I perceived that it did not grow from the soil. What it did gtow from sent a chill of horror through me. That blossom was supported by a stem that reared from the gaping mouth of a long-dead native girl. Stifling my revulsion, I saw that natural decomposition of the

girl's body had never taken place. Her skin hung about her frame like a loose, brown sack that was beginning to fall to: shreds. But inside the shell of her skeleton, Tom, I glimpsed the real evil of this devil flower.”

Myra paused momentarily, and in her expressive eyes was reflected something of the horror she was recalling.

“That skeleton was filled with an intetweaving and inter-lacing network of tiny green feelers and roots that perfectly and completely duplicated what had once been the arteries, veins and capillaries of the unfortunate girl’s body.

“The high priest of this jungle temple sullenly explained to me that the flower blossomed only once each year, producing but one small seed. This seed, when fully ripened, was given in food to the carefully selected sacrifice. A short time later, the victim began to weaken and waste away as the seed germinated, and spread its tiny tentacles, roots and feelers through her circulatory system; each of the thread-like feelers drinking of the victim’s life blood, until at last the sacrifice died, and the flower blossomed miraculously from the mouth of the dead girl.

“The priest informed me further that the flower I was observing was about to go to seed, as the plant had absorbed all the blood of the girl’s corpse.

“Horrible as the priest’s story was, it fascinated me. I determined then and there to carry that fabulous seed back to civilization and put the tale to test by attempting to germinate the seed in a solution of animal blood.:

“But the priest was cleverer than I,” Myra continued. “During the night, he or one of his servitors must have removed the flower and its seed capsule, I was disappointed, of course, but I wanted no more trouble with these natives, whose enmity I had already earned by violating their sacred flower temple, and the whole idea of the flower and plant was so alien and repellant, that I thereupon dismissed the seed from my thoughts, and decided to head back to the coast immediately.

“We remained only one more day in the village, making observations and gathering additional data on the customs and beliefs of these remote savages. It was that one day,


I am now convinced, that cost me my life,” Myra concluded solemnly,

“Only one thing could have happened, Tom,” she went on, beckoning me to silence, as I started to speak. “There just is no other explanation. That native priest, lusting for vengeance for the violation of his temple, managed in some manner to place the seed in my food. As a result, I am about to die—a modern sacrifice to a primitive jungle Flower God thousands of miles away.”

“Nonsense, Myra!” I exclaimed. “Your mind is overwrought with your illness. This is certainly a strange story you have told, but you know as well as I that what you suggest is incredible.”

“Ts it, Tom?” Myra seemed to have spent her pitiably small store of strength in her narration, and now that she had finished her words were tired whispers. “Is it incredible, Tom? J wonder. You do not know the jungle as I do.”

Myra’s eyes closed and she slipped gently into sleep. I took her pulse and found it alarmingly weak, Nurse Wilkins, who had been a fascindted witness to Myra’s story, was at my side. “‘Is there anything I can do, Doctor?”

. “No,” I replied with a sigh. “There’s nothing either of us can do beyond waiting and watching. I think we should both be here, so I will remain for an hour or two.”

Wilkins nodded, and with that knack that is a part of a nurse’s training, made herself comfortable in a chair, although I knew she had been on duty far beyond the normal span of hours. I settled back into the chair at the side of Myra’s bed, Through the open windows drifted the perpetual clamor of the crickets, The window curtains stirred dully in the hot night air,

dass torpor of the heat must have caused me to drop off to sleep, for it was more than an hour later when I was aroused by an exclamation from Wilkins. Instinctively I glanced at Myra. She was dead. She had died so gently and quietly as she slept that neither Wilkins nor I had been aware of her posing. Her eyes were rolled back in her, her mouth slightly opened.

“Ah, well,” I commiserated with a pang

of real sorrow and regret, “at least she has


gone without pain.” For that slight consolation, I could be grateful.

I was about to phone to have the body removed, when my attention was drawn by a strange gurgling or rustling sound that issued from the throat of the dead woman. Wilkins heard it, too, for she was staring as fixedly as I.

And then it happened. J shall state it simply with as few words as possible, describing merely what both Nurse Wilkins and I witnessed with no attempt to theorize or elaborate. For when one is describing the impossible—the incredible...

As Nurse Wilkins and I stared, petrified, a red abomination that I at first thought was blood, caused perhaps by an internal hemorrhage, spread from the mouth of the dead woman. Then, even while my senses fevolted, I was forced to see it for what it really was. It was not blood, but a blood red blossom, unfolding its petals before our very eyes as it reared upward on a pale green stem. In a few short seconds the nightmare flower had completed its deathly growth and was about four inches in width, while the stem supporting it emerged some six inches from the mouth of the corpse. Had my very life depended upon it, I don’t believe I would have been able to stir a muscle during those seconds that seemed an eternity. I was as transfixed as any serpent charmed by a Hindu’s piping. In that brief blink-oftime all my years of scientific training and learning were blasted to nothingness by the impact of the impossible taking place before my eyes,

It was a noise that broke the spell—the noise caused by steely-nerved Nurse Wilkins collapsing in a heap on the floor. She had fainted dead away. Instantly my mind snapped back into action like a spring suddenly released from tension, Thoughts flew through my head at a furious pace. I knew exactly what must be done. Removing a small pen-knife from my pocket, and fighting down an overwhelming revuision, I stepped to the bed and forced myself to slip the blade of the knife between the lips of the dead woman, while I severed the stem of the flower in her throat. Then I thrust the clammy blossom into my coat pocket, and gently and tenderly closed the eyes and mouth of what had once been Myra BradSEED 5F

thaw, When I finished, the body appeared a normal corpse.

Nurse Wilkins’ eyes were fluttering open. In a moment more I had her resting in a chair, staring blankly at me, and muttering, “What happened, Doctor? I—I must have fainted.” A few sips of water refreshed her further, and in a few minutes she was her old self, if a trifle shaken, But she remembered nothing beyond the fact that she had dozed, then had awakened to find Myra Bradshaw dead. All! memory of the hideous episode of the flower was wiped from her mind. The defense mechanism of Nurse Wilkins’ mind was functioning in a mannet that would have delighted an amateur psychoanalyst. The mind of this practical, hardheaded nurse simply couldn’t accept what it had been forced to record. So, it had resorted to the mechanism of a fainting spell.

to reject and blot out the incident. Nurse Wilkins remembered nothing beyond awakening to find Myra Bradshaw had died. Then she had fainted—because of the heat and the long months of overwork and extra hours, she stoutly asserted. At any rate, the very next day Nurse Wilkins departed bag and baggage from the sanitorium, grimly determined on a long-delayed and longneeded holiday. z

Yo my relief I discovered later that Myra Bradshaw had left specific instructions that her body was not to be embalmed. Instead, it was to be consigned, whole and untouched, to the heat of the crematorium. I shuddered to think of the green horror of tiny filaments and delicate lacements the mortician would have found growing through the blood vessels of the corpse,

For by this time I had come to accept Myra Bradshaw’s deathbed story in its entirety. Once the incredible had been demonstrated as factual, I found my inborn scientific curiosity re-asserting itself. I wanted to know more about this weird flower—this fleur de mal, as Myra herself had so rightfully termed it. After reporting and recording Myra’s death, I hurried through the cfoying, humid air of the early morning to my home, my mind busily working all the while, revolving about that curious abomination that lay concealed in my coat pocket.

I had determined to carry out an experiment that would prove to me once and for

all time, beyond the shadow of the slightest doubt, the final truth or falsity of Myra Bradshaw’s story.

IV

Ae SOON as I reached home, early as it was in the morning, I went to my laboratory and there carefully prepared a solution of animal blood in a beaker. In it I placed the flower, pe the beaker in an incubator that would keep the beaker and its contents at blood heat.

That night was five weeks ago. In that time I have replenished the blood in the beaker, keeping the flower supplied with the life-giving fluid it required to remain fresh and blooming. I have made several deductions regarding the blossom. It appears to be an ordinary flower, not unlike the common garden variety of poppy. It possesses no special attributes of motion or action, Unlike the carnivorous fly-trap plants of Africa, it cannot move when excited by foreign stimuli, nor does it sustain itself on flesh, It appears to be an ordinary plant, except that it grows out of a bath of blood, instead of a bed of soil. Also, unlike the flytrap plant, it is not a tuber, but is a seedbearing plant. The seed capsule was well formed and had almost reached maturity last week. It was then I noted that the blossom first showed signs of beginning to fade and wilt. This morning, when I examined the flower, I found it almost entirely wilted and apparently lifeless. I determined that tonight I would examine the seed.

Today I could think of little else than the seed, as J went through my routine calls and duties. The late September sun shone with all the heat of August, to which was added the brief fury that accompanies the harvest and brings the final climax of growth to the plant world.

When the day was finally finished, and I had partaken of a light dinner, I retired te my laboratory and flung wide the windows to admit whatever stray breeze there might be. The sun had already set and the horizon was alive with wriggling serpents ot heatlightning, accompanied by a continuous cannonade of thunder, the faint rumble sounding like the approach of a ghostly artillery. Would the coming storm succeed in break-

%6 WEIRD TALES

ing the relentless grip of the summer's heat? I hoped so fervently. As a doctor, I knew full well the toll this unusual summer had taken in my own small community. Heat

ostrations, heart attacks, sunstrokes—all

d been far higher than average during these past four months. But now it was late September and the magnitude of the storm that threatened promised real relief from the ghastly heat.

Then I forgot all about the approaching storm, as I turned to the wilted, lifeless flower and the dry seed pod that seemed somehow to epitomize and concentrate in itseif ail the miserable heat and sultriness of that long summer of torrid sunshine and misty rains, Perhaps it was my subconsciousness linking the origin of the blossom with the jungle-like heat we had endured throughout this strange summer.

Turning from the window, I removed the beaker of blood and the flower from the incubator, The wilted petals dropped away as my hand touched them. The firm, rounded seed capsule was easily detached from the stem. There it lay in the palm of my hand—a small, brownish-red ovule, not more than three-quarters of an inch in length. I cracked the protective shell that enclosed the seed. The fibrous husk fell apart and J discarded it. In my hand lay the seed. Moving to the lamp, I adjusted my spectacles and peered closely at the object in my palm. And then I gasped with shock and amazement, Could I believe my eyes? Did I really see it?—-a palely greenish-white image, a miniature human shape, not more than half-an-irich in length, and as delicately and exquisitely formed as a bit of Chinese jade!

The window draperies suddenly whipped aside as a blast of hot air swept into the room. There was a terrific crack of thunder and a brilliant dagger of lightning stabbed its way through the inky black heavens. During the next few minutes the elements stormed their most eloquently. The fury burst with a violence that seemed to shake the very earth. The wind mounted steadily, moaning eerily as it veered around the cornets of the house, Great drops of rain were hurled noisily to the earth, It was the preiude of what proved to be an autumnal tempest. But not even the dramatic raging of the storm could distract my attention trom the object I held cradled in my palm.

Hastily I shut the windows to close ou? the ravening wind and the pelting rain. Then I seized a powerful magnifying glass and brought it to focus on the faintly chill and clammy bit of vegetable growth in my hand.

It was then that I saw the ultimate, yet horribly logical terror that finally and completely verified Myra Bradshaw’s story. As { trained the powerful lens on the seed, there came a blinding flash of lightning, accompanied by an ear-splitting roar of thundes that seemed to explode in the garden just outside my laboratory. My electric lamp went dark, plunging the room in complete blackness, Then came another, more prolonged flash of lightning, and while I stared I saw in that glaring light, more vivid than any noon-day sun, that the tiny figure in the palm of my hand was a perfect likeness ia every minute detail, to every last delineation of feature—a miniature replica of Myra Bradshaw herself!

While I stared in that weird intensity of illumination, just before the chamber was once more shrouded in blackness, the half inch seed effigy stared back at me, peering up through the thick glass of the lens with blank and soulless eyes that flashed suddenly open revealing hazel depths flecked with gold, while the beautifully formed limbs of the figurine squirmed and threshed about in mindless motion.

Superstitions aad ah by Ull

Witches were ESPECIALLY =a DREADED ON CHRISTMAS EVE x WHEN IT WAS BELIEVED * THEY WOULD COME INTOA.” NEIGHBORS HOUSE TO GEG, +f BoRROW, OR STEAL SOMETHING TO USE AGAINST Zo] 8 THE OWNER. HOWEVER, —; IF ANYONE STANDING _‘ PELOW THE WITCH WHILE SHE WAS HURTLING P45: THROUGH THE DARKNESS Jy WERE To CALL HER BY NAME, 7HE AVTCH 5 WOULD DIVE WTAE THE YEAR S

Lowers WAVE ALWAYS BEEN BELIEVED CURATIVE § AGENTS AND THE PRO-

# TECTORS OF,:

i5 WUMANITY 9

Wes> THEY ARE

5 fin, THOUGHT To SAVE J

POS" MAIDENS FROM | 3 eS SPINSTER HOOD,

te % BRIDES FROM BARRENNESS AND § MARITAL UNHAPPINESS, SICI<X

PEOPLE FROM FURTHER ILLNESS |


IN A ROOM 448 § CONSIDERED: SURE PROTECZION FROM THE


CF GHOSTS Q |

Q


R. JACOBSON beamed at him Mr. Bauer nodded thoughtfully. “Then through the thick glasses. “I’m I won’t need any of those radium treathappy to tell you there is no sign ments?”

s«batever of cancer.” ‘Absolutely not.’’ Dr. Jacobson removed

Heading by A, R. TILBURNE

MR. BAUER AND THE ATOMS 59

his glasses, wiped them with a bit of rice paper, then mopped his forehead with a handkerchief. Mr. Bauer lingered.

He looked at the X-ray machine bolted down by the window, It still looked as solid and mysterious as when he had first glimpsed a corner of it from Myna’s bedroom. He hadn't gotten any farther.

Dr. Jacobson replaced his glasses.

“It’s funny, you know, but I’ve been thinking...” Mr. Bauer plunged.

EY ese

“T guess all this atomic stuff got me started, but I've been thinking about all the energy that’s in the atoms of my body. When you start to figure it out on paper—well, two hundred -million electron volts, they say, from just splitting one atom, and that’s only a tiny part of it.” He grinned, “Enough energy in my body, I guess, to blow up, maybe... the world.”

Dr. Jacobson nodded. ‘“‘Almost. But all safely locked up.”

Mr. Bauer nodded. “They're finding out how to unlock it.”

Dr. Jacobson smiled. “Only in the case of two rare radioactive elements.”

Mr. Baner agreed, then gathered all his courage. “I’ve been wondering about that too,” he said. “Whether a person could somehow make himself... I mean, become... fadioactive?”

Dr. Jacobson chuckled in the friendliest way. “See that box at your elbow?” He reached out and turned something on it. The box ticked. Mr. Bauer jerked.

“That’s a Geiger-Miiller counter,” Dr. Jacobson explained. ‘‘Notice how the ticks come every second or so? Each tick indicates a high-frequency wave. If you were radioactive, it would tick a lot oftener.”’

Mr. Bauer laughed. “Interesting.” He got up. “Well, thanks about the cancer.”

Dr. Jacobson watched him fumble for his panama hat and duck out. So that was it. He'd sensed all along something peauliar about Bauer. He’d even felt it while looking over the X-ray and lab reports—something intangibly wrong. Though he hadn't thought until now of paranoia, or, for that matter, any other mental ailment, beyond the almost normal cancer-fear of a man in his fifties.

Frank Bauer hesitated at the conridor leading to Myna’s apartment, then went on. His heart hammered enragedly. There he’d gone chicken again, when he knew very well that if he could ever bring himself to state his fear coldly and completely—that crazy fear that a man’s thoughts could do to the atoms of his body what the scientists had managed to do with uranium 235 and that other element—why, he'd be rid of the fear in a minute.

But a man just didn’t go around admitting childish things like that. A human bomb exploded «by thought! It was too much like his wife Grace and her mysticism.

Going crazy wouldn't be so bad, he thought, if only it weren’t so humiliating.

RANK BAUER lived in a world where

everything had been exploded. He scented confidence games, hoaxes, faddish self-deception, and especially (for it was his province) advertising-copy-exaggerations behind every faintly unusual event and every intimation of the unknown. He had the American’s nose for leg-pulling, the German’s contempt for the non-factual. Mention of such topics as telepathy, hypnotism, or the occult—and his wife managed to mention them fairly often—sent him into a scoffing rage. The way he looked at it, a real man had three legitimate interests—business, bars, and blondes. Everything else was for cranks, artists, and women.

But now an explosion had occurred which made all other explosions, even of the greatest fakeries, seem like a snap of the fingers.

By the time he reached the street, he thought he was beginning to feel a bit better. After all, he had told the doctor practically everything, and the doctor had disposed of his fears with that little box. That. was that.

He swabbed his neck and thought about a drink, but decided to go back to the office. Criminal to lose a minute these days, when everybody was fighting tooth and nail to get the jump. He’d be wanting money pretty soon, the bigger the better. All the things that Grace would be nagging for now, and something special for Myna—and ther there was a chance he and Myna could get away together for a vacation, when he’d got those campaigns lined out.

The office was cool and dusky and

60 WEIRD TALES

pleasantly suggestive of a mnon-atomic solidity. Every bit of stalwart ugliness, every worn spot in the dark varnish, made him feel better. He even managed to get off a joke to ease Miss Minter’s boredom. Then he went inside.

An hour later he rushed out. This time he had no joke for Miss Minter. As she looked after him, there was something in her expression that had been in Dr. Jacobson’s.

It hadn’t been so bad at first when he’d got out paper and black pencil. After all, any advertising copy had to make Atomic Age its keynote these days. But when you sat there, and thought and thought, and whatever you thought, you always found afterwards that you’d written:

INSIDE YOU... TRILLIONS OF VOLTS!

You wouldn’t think, to look at them, that there was much resemblance between John Jones and the atom bomb....

UNLOCKED!


JUST A THOUGHT—

Frank Bauer looked around at the grimy street, the windows dusty or dazzingly golden where the low sun struck, the people wilted a little by the baking pavement—and he saw walls turned to gray powder, their steel skeletons vaporized, the people became fumes, or, if they were far enough away, merely great single blisters. But they’d have to be very far away.

He was going crazy—and it was horribly humiliating. He\hurried into the bar.

After his secdgd bourbon and water he began to think about the scientists. They should have suppressed the thing, like that one fellow who wanted to. They shouldn’t ever have told people. So long as people didn’t know, maybe it would have been all right.... But once you'd been told....

Thought was the most powerful force in the world. It had discovered the atom bomb. And yet nobody knew what thought was, how it worked inside your nerves, what it couldn’t manage.

And you cuuldn’t stop thinking. Whatever your thoughts decided to do, you couldn't stop them.

It was insanity, of course.

It had better be insanity!

The man beside him said. “He saw a Sot of those Jap suicide flyers. CRAZY as loons. Human bombs.”

Human bombs! Firecrackers. He put down his drink.

As he hurried through the thinning crowd, retracing the course he had taken early in the afternoon, he wondered why there should be so much deadly force locked up in such innocent-seeming, inert things. The whole universe was a booby trap. There must be a reason. Who had planned it thet way, with the planets far enough apart so they wouldn’t hurt each other when they popped?

He thought he began to feet sharp pains shooting through his nerves, as the tadioactivity began, and after he had rushed up the steps the pains became so strong that he hesitated at the intersection of the cortidors before he went on to Myna’s.

He closed the door and leaned back against it, sweating. Myna was drinking and she had her hair down, There was a pint of bourbon on the table, and some ice. She jumped up, pulling at her dressing gown.

“What's wrong? Grace?”

He shook his head, kept staring at her, at her long curling hair, at her breasts, as if in that small hillocky, yellow entwined patch of reality lay his sole hope of salvation, his last refuge.

“But my God, what is it!”

He felt the pains mercifully begin to fade, the dangerous thoughts break ranks and tetreat. He began to say to himself, “It must have hit a lot of people the same way it hit me. It’s just so staggering. That must be it. That must be it.”

Myna was tugging at him. “It’s nothing,” he told her, “I don’t know. Maybe my heart. No, I don’t need a doctor.”

She wandered into the bedroom and came back with a large waffle-creased metal egg which she held out to him, as if it were a toy to cajole an ailing child.

“My cousin just landed in San Francisco,” she told him. “Look at the souvenir he smuggled in for me.”

He got up carefully and took it from her,

‘‘Must be your dumb cousin, the one from downstate.”

“Why?”

“Because, unless I’m very much mistaken,


this is a live hand grenade. Look, you'd just have to puli this pin—”

“Give it to me!”

But he fended her off, grinning, holding the grenade in the air.

“Don’t be frighened,” he told her, ‘“This is nothing. It’s just a flash in the pan, a matchhead. Haven’t you heard of the atom bomb? That’s all that counts from now on.”

He enjoyed her fear so much that he kept up his teasing fer some time, but after a while he yielded and laid the grenade gingerly away in the back of the closet.

FTERWARDS he found he could talk

to her more easily than ever before. He told her about the Atomic Age, how they’d be driving around in an airplane with a fuel-tank no bigger than a peanut, how they’d whisk to Europe and back on a glass of water. He even told her a little about his crazy fears. Finally he got philosophical.

“See, we always thought everything was so solid. Money, automobiles, mines, dirt. We thought they were so solid that we could handle them, hold on to them, do things with them. And now we find they’re just a lot of little bits of deadly electricity, whirling around at God knows what speed, by some miracle frozen for a moment. But any time now—’ He looked across at her and then reached for her. ‘Except you,” he said. “There aren't any atoms in you.”

“Look,” he said, “there’s enough energy inside you to blow up the world—well, maybe not inside you, but inside any other person. This whole city would go pouf!”

“Stop it.”

“The only problem is, how to touch it off. Do you know how cancer works?”

“Oh shut up.”

“The cells run wild. They grow any way they want to. Now-suppose your thoughts should run wild, eh? Suppose they’d decide to go to work on your body, on the atoms of your body.”

“For God’s sake.”

“They'd start on your nervous system first, of course, because that’s where they are. They'd begin to split the atoms of your nervous system, make them, you know, radioactive. Then—’’

“Frank!”

He glanced out of the window, noticed

6f

the light was still in Dr, Jacabson’s office. He was feeling extraordinarily good, as if there were nothing he could not do. He felt an exciting rush: of energy through him. He turned and reached for Myna.

Myna screamed,

He grabbed at her.

“What's the matter?”

She pulled away and screamed again.

He followed her. She huddled against the far wall, still screaming.:

Then he saw it.

Of course, it was too dark in the room to see anything plainly. Flesh was just a dim white smudge. But this thing beside Myna glowed greenishly. A blob of green about as high off the floor as his head. A green stalk coming down from it part way. Fainter greenish ‘filaments going off from it, especially from near the top and bottom of the stalk.

It was his reflection in the mirror.

Then the pains began to come, horrible pains sweeping up and down his nerves, building a fire in his skull.

He ran out of the bedroom. Myna followed him, saw him come out of the closet, bending, holding something to his stomach. About seconds after he’d gotten through the hall door, the blast came.

Dr. Jacobson ran out of his office. The corridor was filled with acrid fumes. He saw a woman in a dresing gown trying to haul a naked man whose abdomen and legs were tattered and dripping red. Together they cartied him into the office and laid him down.

Dr. Jacobson recognized his patient.

“He went crazy,” the woman yelped at him, “He thought he was going to explode like an atom, and something horrible happened to him, and he killed himself.”

Dr. Jacobson, seeing the other was beyond help, started to calm her,

Then he heard it.

His thick glasses, half dislodged during his exertions, fell off. His red-rimmed naked eyes looked purblind, terrified.

He could tell that she heard it ‘too, although she didn’t know its meaning. A sound like the rattle of a pygmy machine

n. The Geiger-Miiller counter was ticking like a clock gone mad.

$ a8 PSU 3


Thirty-three revs. Thirty-three revo- times every minute....

lutions. That’s the way it plays— It looks just like an ordinary machine for night and day, night and day. The black disc making home recordings. But it isn’t! You on the playback of the recording machine, won't find any tubes or wires inside. I

ik fevs a minute. whirling around and around, Thirty-three

Heading by FRED HUMISTON

An instrument of the devil, its contents created in bell!

SATAN’S PHONOGRAPH 63

couldn’t begin to guess what 7s inside. The box is sealed—and its contents were created in hell.

Take a look at the record. You'd think that was ordinary, too. But you’re wrong. Because when you play the record, you don’t hear a human voice. You hear—a human soul!

You think I’m crazy, eh; babbling like this? Well, I don’t blame you. I thought he was crazy, too, when he brought me that instrament of the devil — Satan’s phonograph,

Yes, I thought Gustav Frye was mad.

I always knew he possessed the eccentricities of a genius, of course. Ever since he taught me the piano—as only Gustav Frye could teach it, One of the greatest virtuosos in the world; this little, shrivelled-up old man. He made a concert pianist out of me, and a good one. But even in the old days he was moody, filled with queer ideas.

He didn’t concentrate on technique, “Let your soul express itself through the music,” he would tell me.

I laughed, then. I thought it was just an affectation. But I know now that he believed it; and surely he taught me to go beyond mere mastery of the keyboard, into the realms of the spirit. He was a strange teacher, and a great one.:

After Carnegie Hall, my first successes, I didn’t see Gustav Frye any more. I went out on tour—traveled abroad for several years. It was on my European trip that I met and married Maxine.

When we came back here together, I heard startling news of my old teacher. Gustav Frye had gone mad, they said—he had been put away in an institution.

I was shocked, sorry, and anxious for further details. But nobody seemed to know the exact circumstances, and in the pressure of settling down once more, I overlooked the news for the moment.

Maxine and I took a little studio apartment Bowe, and we were happy for a while.

And ee Grieg Frye came back!

I'll never forget the night. I was home alone. Maxine had gone out to spend the evening with friends, I remember that I was sitting before the fire stroking the black fur of Tiger, our cat.

Suddenly, the cat arched its back and hissed. Then silently, out of nowhere, Gustav Frye glided into the room.

He was little, and wrinkled, and old. He was clad in rags. But somehow, he looked terribly impressive. Perhaps it was his eyes —perhaps something that seemed to peer from within his eyes or behind them,

ESTARTLED me. I stammered out

something trite, but he didn’t respond.

He kept looking at me and nodding his head

as though marking the beat of some strange inward rhythm.

Oh, he was mad enough, and no mistake! I discovered that as soon as I ventured to comment concerning the big black case he carried under his arm,

I remember what he said as he set the case down and opened it.

“So, Roger, my old pupil—you want to know what this is, ja? You shall never guess! Twenty years I work to perfect this thing—this machine. I call it a machine because there is no other word you could understand; but it is not mechanical, ieiz!

“They laugh at me, Roger, when I tell them of my work. They call me crazy. They even lock me up; perhaps you hear of this?

“But I work. And I finish it. When I finish it, I break out of that place where they shut me away—and I ‘come here to you. Now, look at this!”

I looked at the open case; at the two turntables, the cutting arm, the playback arm, the package of discs.

“Why, it’s a phonograph,” home-recording machine.”

Gustav Frye nodded—kept time, rather, to invisible music.

“And how do you make such a homerecording, as you call it?” he asked.

“Why, it’s very simple,” I faltered. “I don’t know the technical process, but—you talked into a microphone, and the sound waves of your voice are electrically reproduced on the record, It’s just a matter of vibrations impressed on the surface of the record; that’s all. And when you play it back, you hear your voice.”

Gustav Frye chuckled. Even his chuckle seemed to accent the rhythm to which his nodding head responded.

“Very good! You always were a smart

I said. “A


pupil, Roger. But you are wrong. This is not an ordinary recording phonograph. It does not capture voices alone. It captures— souls!”

I gaped at him. “Souls?”

“Yes, souls.” He regarded me so earnestly that I felt pity for him in his delusion. “Sound is vibration,” he said. “Well, vibration is the source of life. The atoms and molecules of your body are all moving, vibrating in certain set rhythms. They put out electrical impulses—wave-lengths which can be recorded, They have recorded heartbeat and thought-waves. But suppose you could invent a machine that would pick up the vibrations of your soul, of your life-beat itself?”

“Impossible!”

He nodded again, faster. “I have such a machine here,” he whispered. “A machine io capture and record the human soul. Mind you, I said capture and record.”

How I laughed at him, then! I thought if he knew I was skeptical he might stop his iirade and go away. But the old man insisted. He said he had always tried to capture the essence of the soul in music—but never succceded. That is why he had worked on the machine, He wouldn’t explain what he had learned or done; I might steal the secret, he said.

Oh, it was fantastic! In the end, I told him so to his face,

Then he became stubborn. He insisted on giving me a “demonstration” —with Tiger, the cat.

What could I do? One humors madmen, eh? So I humored Gustav Frye.

IALLOWED him to set up his recording

microphone there before the fireplace. It was just an ordinary microphone—in fact, the whole set appeared to be quite ordinary, though it bore no manufacturer’s label. I wondered where he had obtained it.

He attached the mike to the machine, and put the cutting arm in place above a fresh disc. He had no brush, and I noticed that there were no sound-level controls visible to my eye. The mike extended on a cord, and when he lifted it, I saw that a tiny red light seemed to glow from the mike head.

That was curious—the light glowed; he appeared ready to cut a record, and yet

. under my arm. But Tiger wasn’t eee

‘WEIRD TALES a

he hadn’t plu; wires into a wall socket. Apaee ie machine did not operate on electric current.

I started to question him, then checked the impulse. It would only provoke a harangue on his mad theories. And I wanted him to get it over with, go away before Maxine returned. It was embarrassing and disturbing. Better to humor him, now.

So I held Tiger, writhing in my arms, as he placed the mike before the cat’s eyes. The ted glare rose from the mike in inexplicable phosphorescence, and ‘Figer stared at it, spitting and hissing.

Then Gustav Frye started the cutting arm moving across the black record. Tiger howled into the microphone.

It only took a minute.

After that, old Frye lifted the arm, switched the record over to the playback turntable, and played the recording. I could hear Tiger howling—howling hideously with nerve-wracking clarity.

It disturbed me—that dreadful squalling. I toid him to stop the record. He shrugged and lifted the needle.

Then I looked around. Everything was unchanged in the room. I still held Tiger

Tiger was limp. Tiger was cold. was—dead.

Yes..The cat was dead.

I can hear old Frye chuckling now, as I protested in sudden, incoherent rage.

“But of course, your cat is dead! Didn't I tell you that my machine captures the soul as well as records it? The sudden shock; the translation of soul-essence into vibration— that does it. So, you see, it isn’t Tiger’s voice you hear. It is his soul!”

I threw him out, then. Yes, literally threw him out. The old lunatic had frightened my cat to death—and I admit he scared me, too-—with his crazy talk of putting souls on phonograph records!

I hustled him out of there in a sort of unreasoning fury. He protested with the fervor of the madman that he was. He had made me rich and famous, he said. Now he wanted me to protect him while he perfected his infernal machine. He had great plans; he and I could share the rewards.

I lost my head completely. I shouted at him to go away, to stay away.

iger

SATAN’S. PHONOGRAPH 63

Then he cursed me. He cursed me and swore revenge.

I hardly heard him. I was too busy hustling him downstairs. He scutiled off with his bulky machine under his arm; his head stil nodding frantically as he wheezed threats under his breath.

I shouted after him that he'd better not let me catch him around here again—and I meant it,

But he came back. Yes—he came back!

I found that out the next afternoon.

You see, I hadn’t told Maxine about the madman, I knew it would only alarm her. I yot rid of poor ‘Piger’s body before she returned that night, and said nothing about the incident.

Then—the next afternoon—when I came back from a stroll after luneb, I opened the door and heard Maxine scream.

“Roger!” she shrieked. “Roger! Roger!”

I rushed into the studio. I saw- Maxine tnere, lying on the floor. She was pale and tifeless.

But how could that be?

For I still heard her voice. screaming.

“Roger! Roger! Roger!”

She screamed my name over afd over again, without a change of inflection; sereamed it in utter agony.

Heaven help me, I knew then! I saw that accursed instrument over on a table, saw the record whirling and the needle pressing down.

The phonogtaph—Satan’s phonograph— was grinding away.

I knelt beside Maxine’s body and kissed ner cold, dead lips—while on the record she screamed her endless torment.

“Roger! Roger! Roger!”

She was

KNEW how it must have happened, of

course, Gustav Frye had sworn revenge. While I was away he had come here, talked to Maxine; probably persuaded her to record her voice as a joke. “To surprise Roger,” he must have said,

Yes, Frye had lured her before the microphone—and captured her soul on the record!

I rose, took the record off. It was an ordinaty black disc, and its surface seemed gtooved in the usual manner. I held it and it felt cold; cold as Maxine’s body. I couldn't think, couldn’t comprehend what had happened.

After that I just sat there for a long time. It was quite a long time, because twilight crept into the reom as I stared into the shadows and tried to think.

What could I do?

The police would laugh at me if I called them. The whole story was so incredible. But it was true!

Perhaps I had better destroy the machine, then find Frye. But that wouldn't help to bring Maxine back again,

What could I do?

I fell asleep, finally. Yes, I must have fallen asleep. And that's when Frye came back,

Yes, he must have tiptoed into the room in the twilight, nodding his head in that alien rhythm. And Frye must have seen me sleeping and hypnotized me.

Do you hear? He came to me in sleep and hypnotized me! He changed the records, put on a new disc, and held the microphone before my lips.

Then, as I slept, he commanded me to speak.

He made me speak these words—the words that put my soul on a record like ail the rest.

Do you hear me? Do you hear my voice? Then do something!

Find that man.

Find Gustav Frye, wherever he may be— and destroy him. Destroy that hideous machine, too, before it is too late. And do something to get me off this record.

Yes... get me off this record, do you hear?

Get me out of here... out of here... out of here... out of here... out of here: sss

ikeman

By AUGUST DERLETH

HILE crossing high ground near

\ N a brook in the middle of woodland between two small villages,

Jeffrey Morton came upon a solitary grave on the edge of a grassy shoulder of land, with a wood sloping down to the brook on one side and a field on the other, skirting very close to this deserted grave with its Jeaning headstone. Morton was a younglooking man in his early forties, fairly wellto-do, and at the moment indulging a whim to collect epitaphs; he had been at it over a month, and had managed to find a great many curious and amusing inscriptions in long-abandoned and forgotten graveyards.

This lone grave, however, seemed to offer little beyond the conventional, until Morton sat down on it.

The headstone informed him that beneath this ancient slab was buried Septimus Pikeman, Agent, who had met his death, coincidently, just a century ago to the day— August 17, 1945. This information was followed by fines which, in one variation or another, Morton had come upon thousands of times:

‘As you are now, so once was I.

J A As I am now, soon must you be. Prepare for death and follow me.”

Have you ever sat on a grave and heard a voice, unmistakably from below, say “Aren't you going to invite me up?”

a Oo 08

sen essen ¢.

SINNER Rt

Vales ee;

Heading by BORIS DOLGOV

PIKEMAN

To all this, however, another hand had clearly directed that there be added a further fine which had been put in very low down on the headstone, so that it was not until hte sat down that Morton saw the halfobliterated lettering and pieced it out:

He died by a hand not his own, but it were better had it been his own. Let no one call upon him.

“Well, why not!” exclaimed Morton, aloud, and grinned. Like many solitary persons, Morton had got into the habit of talking to himself. He began to wonder what Pikeman had agented, reflecting that the country through which he new traveled had only begun to be settled at about the time of Pikeman’s death. He wondered by whose hand he had come to his end, and he began, somewhat romantically, to construct an imaginary character for Pikeman. Looking around him, he concluded that Pikeman was net buried in a cemetery, since there was no evidenee of further graves, but off by himself. An outeast, perhaps? “But if so,” he mused aloud, “why the stone?’

It was a substantial stone, despite ail the wear it showed. He touched its rough surface and copied the curious line along the earth. “Septimus Pikeman,” he repeated to himself. It was a curious name. “Agent.” How ambiguous! In a sense, it was vexing, too. “Well, Pikeman,” he said absently, “how have you fared down there?”

“At last!” said a voice almost explosively from below. ‘You've been a long time.”

Morton was romantically inclined in a vety safe way, and somewhat imaginative. For a half-moment he fancied he had imagined the voice he had heard. But since he had heard it so plainly, this was difficult to believe. Quite naturally, he next assumed that someone might be hidden in the nearby woods; so he looked around, examining every tree of any size for a telltale shadow which might indicate someone in concealment. But this did not entirely satisfy him, for the voice he had heard had come distinctly and incontrovertibly from below. Just as he had begun, somewhat uneasily, to consider this, he heard it again, impatiently.


“Well, aren’t you going to invite me up?” Moston swallowed. “Come up,’ he said, a Hitle thickly.

Neer whatever happened. For one ridiculous moment, Morton had thought that the earth on which he sat would heave and churn, and something hosrible would ceme up. On the strength of his fancy, he rose to his feet with ungainly haste, and looked at the grave and its leaning headstone, momentarily expecting the sod te fissure and be thrust back. Nothing of the sort took place. A small wind hushed through the grass; a peewee sang in the nearby woeds; a car hummed on the highway Morton had left behind, and far off to the north, a mail plane went roaring distantly over.

Morton took a deep breath.

“This is “much better,” said the voice again, this time coming from directly be hind Morton,

Merton acted very much the way anyone in his place might act; he turned quickly and, seeing nothing, set off at a rapid pace which was just short of running in the most convenient direction leading away from the solitary grave. He ventured a glance over his shoulder from time to time, but nothing untoward appeared on the Jandscape. His thoughts were understandably somewhat chaotic. When finally his voice returned to him,

_he comforted himself by repeating aloud

several times, “A touch of the sun!” By these measures and the very palpable fact that nothing pursued him, Morton was able to calm himself sufficiently so that when he walked into the nearby town of Karlin an hour later, he appeared to be a completely normal, if somewhat puzzled, traveler.

Karlin was down on his itinerary for an overnight stay; it rose in the midst of quaint, Old-World country. Itself primarily a. settlement of Yankees transported to the Midwest, Karlin was surrounded by all manner of foreign settlements—Swiss, Swedish, Norwegian, Bavarian villages abounded in these parts, and their ceme'eries. might be expected to yield something odder and more entertaining than the average of those thus far visited. Karlin was modern and industrial, on several railroads, and offered a


choice of hostelries, from among which Morton chose the best and most obviously long-established.

After dinner, having had a good two hours in which to think about Septimus Pikeman and his curious experiences at Pikeman’s grave, he made an effort to look into the history of the region, and found his way to the public library, which was open. Karlin had been platted and, to all intents, founded, in 1852, and Morton, with some experience in these matters, wisely sought the half-century anniversary issue of the local paper,

This he read diligently, but it was not until he came upon a corner put away under the heading of “Legends” that he found any mention of Septimus Pikeman.

One of our most eery tales is that of Septimus Pikeman, the Indian Agent who defrauded government and red men alike, and who ended up at the end of a rope put around his neck by Indians and early settlers in the region. The man, Pikeman, claimed to be the ‘seventh son of the seventh son’, and therefore to be possessed of more than ordinary power, to some degree supernatural. This none believed except an old Indian medicine man, one of the Winnebago tribe then living here where Karlin now stands. This old fellow decreed that the de

frauding agent's body should be buried.

im an out-of-the-way place, and not in a regularly used cemetery, to prevent anyone from inadvertently ‘calling up’ Pikeman, and thus giving him new body and life. This was done, and the curious may see Pikeman’s grave opposite the apex of the angle of Benson’s Brook coming in from the north along the east, and Highway Z, along the southern boundary of the area. Despite the vigorous belief of the Indian medicine man that Pikeman’s grave should be allowed to vanish unmarked, some of Pikeman’s relatives had a headstone erected. After it had been set up, the medicine man had an additional sentence of his own cut in by a member ot his band. Despite all the legends which. have grown up about Septimus Pikeman, he has rested securely in his forgotten grave.


AN INDIAN agent, of course; in pioneer country, that would be the expected kind of agent one would encoun: ter. Morton’s uneasiness was oot entirely allayed, but he was nevertheless attracted to Pikeman as a figure in a legend, and, when he found outside, sunning himself in the late evening sun, an old gaffer who bore every evidence of having been in on the founding of Karlin, even if but a babe in arms, he struck up a conversation with him leading gradually up to the subject of Pikeman.

“Septimus Pikeman?’’ repeated the oldster. “Heard the name. Sounds Yankee, all right. No Pikemans living here now.”

Another oldster, who had come up, put in, “Why, that old crook used to run these parts till they got wise to him and run him out.”

“Slander!” said a third voice vehemently, but Morton, who was somewhat confused, could not determine which of them had said it; it almost seemed to him, judging by the way in which the two old gaffers stared at him from under beetling brows, that he himself had taken umbrage at this wanton condemnation of Pikeman.

Morton wanted to make further inquiries about Pikeman, but, while he was pondering what line to follow, he asked, in the most natural way, whether there were any Indians still living in this part of the coun-

“Ain’t seen Indian since about 1890,” said one of the old man.

The other fell to arguing that a certain local chieftain’s band had passed through the town in 1892 for the last time, and this waxed hotly for a few moments, while Morton slowly regained his bearings.

“This Pikeman must have been quite a character,” he said.

“I knew a Miss Abby Pikeman once. Lived out on County Trunk K. Nice little woman. She’s dead, though,” offered the first of the two old gaffers.

“Died twenty-one years ago,” offered the other.

This was manifestly not very helpful, particularly since the two old men immediately began to debate this point also.

“Hifers! Old Pods!” exclaimed Morton in disgust, and turned on his heel, with the

PIKEMAN

gof_its staring in perplexed indignation at his retreating back.

The sound of the words rang in his ears. What in the world had he said? Morton was an educated man, he was a tolerant man —how had he come to burst out at the old men who were only obliging him? He repeated his words to himself, wonderingly; he did not know what they meant, except to realize that they were not terms of endearment. He retraced his steps to the library and there, after some diligent search, found in an old Bartlett Glossary of Words and Phrases Usually Regarded as Peculiar to

the United States (1859) that the words.

he had used meant, respectively, “loiterers,” and “old men.” The words had quite evidently become obsolete in the language of the day, however current and “peculiar to the United States” they had been a century. ago. How he had come to use them— unless he had chanced upon them in recognizable context long ago—was inexplicable to Morton. —

Insidiously, Morton began to feel a vague alarm mushrooming up inside him. He had the conviction that something was happening to him, something all the more unpleasant because of its intangibility. The sun had set now and, though an afterglow still lingered along the western rim of earth, Morton felt impelled to turn his steps in the direction of his hotel.

He paused at the desk, where the clerk observed that his brow was beaded with perspiration. He asked for something to drink to be sent up to his room in a little while, half an hour or so, and went to his room.

Even there, however, he did not feel at ease. If anything, he felt more uneasy than ever. When he attempted to rationalize his reactions, he came to nothing save an uncertain belief that he was not alone in the room, any more than he had been outside; yet there was manifestly no one in the room with him.

Unless—if it could be—his hallucination...?

ORTON loosened his collar a little.: He licked his lips nervously. He looked around, very carefully, not knowing what he expected to see. He saw nothing


but what had always been in the room, except for the limited accoutrements of Morton’s walking tour, which would depart with him in the morning. Nevertheless, his growing uneasiness was not alleviated. As he sat there, he began to put together all the incidents of the day, specifically since he had chanced upon that solitary grave, and he began to perceive a hideous pattern in the trivial experiences he had had.

Very soon he was caught between the usual two horns of a dilemma. If he looked on the one side, he saw every event of the day linked with every other; if he looked on the other, he saw himself seiting a trap for himself. But this wou'd not do. He thought that there was one way in which he could settle the matter, at least fundamentally.

He looked hunted, when he caught « glimpse of himself in the mirror. And he felt hunted.

He swallowed again, bolstered his cour age, and said dubiously, “Pikeman?”

“Sorry to be making so much trouble for you,” said a familiar voice, “but it will soon be over.”

DUE course of time—which in the matter of Jeffrey Morton, lost without trace—was a full month, a detective retained by a distant relative to uncover Morton's whereabouts arrived at the Hotel Karlin. a dutiful watchdog on the trail, and imme diately set about to make the routine inquiries.

Did the management recall Jeffrey Morton? He began to describe him.

He was halted in the middle of his description. Yes, the management recalled Jeffrey Morton—with some reason. An extraordinary person.

The detective pricked up his ears and listened.

“We thought Mr. Morton a very queer person,” said the manager. “Sort of, you might say, a Jekyll and Hyde fellow.”

The detective pointed out dryly that Jeffrey Morton was a creature of unalterable habit, and there must be some mistake.

The management did not think so. But, to reasons.

Morton had come to the Hotel Karlin representing himself as a collector of epi70 WEIRD TALES

taphs, on a walking tour. But, actually, he had left his epitaphs behind and had departed from the town by train. The epitaphs were produced and identified as in Morton’s handwriting; the list included that last cryptic line: He died by a hand not his own, but it were better had it been his own. Let no one call upon him. This made no impression on the investigator whatsoever.

“The bell-boy went up to the room to take up some whiskey and soda Mr. Morton had ordered. The first time he reached the door, he hesitated to go in because there was an argument going on inside.” ~

“Ah, what kind of argument?”

“I remember what he’ said. He overheard Mr. Morton saying in a loud voice, ‘No—for God’s sake! Get out!’ Mr. Morton’s companion then was heard to say, “That place of mine out there is a little damp at times, but otherwise comfortable enough. As a matter of fact, though, you won't need it.’”

The detective could make nothing much out of that, either.

“The second time,” continued the managet, “he went in with the drinks. Mr. Morton was alone. He said that Morton looked very disgusted over something and when the boy came up to him, Morton threw these epitaphs to the table and said, ‘Hell of a thing for a grown man to fiddle away his time oa!’ ”

“Morton said that?”

“Right. We remembered it because we understood that he had been at making that collection over a month, Naturally, it seemed very strange to us.”’

The manager went on to recount facts.

After Morton had come in on the one and only night he stayed at the hotel, he had twice telephoned the desk. The first time he asked that any kind of map of the ‘Western areas’ of the United States be

sent up to him. The second time was about an hour later; then he wanted the desk to send out and get him a ticket for Butte,

Montana.”’

“Did you get it?”

= Y 65,"

“Did he use it?”’

“He checked out next morning and asked the way to the railroad station. We have no reason to believe he did not use it.

“Any conversation when he left? Argue about his bill or anything like that? Morton occasionally did, I understand.”

“Nothing like that, But he said something in its own way even more surprising, in view of the initial representations he made of himself. He said he was off for the West, and the last thing he said to the clerk was this: “There must certainly be some Indian territory in the West, with the need for a good Indian agent.’ ”

Re detective, with virtually an unlimited expense. account, went all the way to Butte, Montana. It was a good opportunity, and he took it. His quest, however, was not fruitful. He found no trace of the object of his search. Jeffrey Morton certainly got on the train in Karlin, but he might have got off anywhere. The hotel registers failed to reveal anything. The detective found only one name with an ambiguous address registered at one of the hotels in Butte on the day Morton would ordinarily have arrived in that city. He looked at it a long time.

“Septimus Pikeman, Agent. Uo

It meant nothing to him, and in due time he returned to Chicago, reported his failures, and collected his fees. Jeffrey Morton got a number in a long list of unsolved disappearances and that was his sole immortality.

Eastern

eon thea os in STAY TUNED FOR TERROR

This programme is adapted by ROBERT BLOCH from his stories which have appeared in WEIRD TALES, the narrator being Craig Dennis.

STAY TUNED FOR TERROR is produced by Neblett Radio Productions, with the active cooperation of WEIRD TALES MAGAZINE... for the enjoyment of fantasy fans everywhere.

LOOK FOR ANNOUNCEMENTS IN YOUR LOCAL NEWSPAPER giving the broadcast time and dates im your area.

~Kkn~

And remember to....

Stay Tuned for

She

iversions of

Mme. Gamorra

ECOULD stop now. He’s run far enough, Maybe. But in any case he had to stop. Here in the shadow of

the great oak, its bark rough and reassuring under his touch, he had to stop to still the pounding of his laboring heart, to wipe from his forehead the dew of fright and ex-

..., & might have been a rat, but a rat grown to monstrous, misshapen proportions


ertion, to ease from his gross body the fearsweat shirt.

But he couldn't halt this convulsive shivering, as of a million loathsome crawling things inching their way on icy feet up his shrinking back. He couldn’t control the jerking of his head—jerking, jerking spasHeading by A, R. TILBURNE


THE DIVERSIONS OF MME. GAMORRA 73

modically over his right shoulder so that itis dilated eyes might sweep behind him over the sandy, hump-backed country road, searching, fearing te see again the thing, creature, #t that had crossed his path back there near the Gamorra farm.

But what was it? What had 7t been?

Osbert Horland cowered against the oak, peered down the sandy road. Air sucked into his lungs, agonizingly. He waited. Cloud-wrack covered the moon, swept on.

Nothing. Not in ten years had Osbert Horland thanked his Creator for anything, but—oh, blessed God! Nothing. It was gone,

But it had been there. His vision hadn’t tricked him, nor his fear. If there was anything on God's green earth it had resembled at all, it might have been a rat. But what a rat! A rat grown to monstrous, misshapen proportions. A rat that magnified a thousandfold your natural repugnance for one of its kind.

Osbert had been walking along, coming home, when suddenly it had crawled from the ditch at his left, directly into his path. For a breathless moment they'd both stopped, paralyzed. The thing had seemed equally startled. Then it had scurried into the underbrush, he had heard the crackling of its passage. And Osbert, galvanized, had started to run wildly, panic-stricken, his great belly shaking, his balding head glistening under the intermittent light of the moon.

God!

He wiped his forehead anew. He swallowed carefully to settle his queasy stomach.

The thing had made no move to attack him. He’d have died of sheer terror if it had. It was fully three or four feet wide and possibly five feet long, and its four small legs held it barely six inches above the ground. It had no neck; its flat skull merged directly into its short-hased, dun-colored body. A body that was shallow, like a turtle’s. But a turtle was.a clean, a normal thing.

It was not,

Again, at the memory, Osbert swallowed hastily. But it was useless this time. He turned and retched helplessly.

Someone should warn Madame Gamorra, he knew hazily, through his nausea, But not him. Not now. He couldn’t go back. Not alone. Not on foot. A little farther on, and

he'd be safe. Home. He'd get Ada, And the cat. The thing in the road had even made him forget the fiasco of his marriage with Ada. For once he’d be glad to get home to her. For once he’d welcome her companionship.

Netvoual: he left the shelter of the oak, with many a backward glance, stepping high as if even yet he feared treading on—+t.

ee was on the sofa, in satin lounging pajamas, indolent as a sleek black cat. Even now, shaken as he was, Osbert wondered again that people ever thought her attractive, with her black bangs, her wise green eyes, her scimitar-slim body.

- He never had. He'd married her only because she’d led him to believe she was rich, the lying, devious, little—!

She looked up as he came in, “Why, it’s Osbert! My darling, my own true love.’’ As always, specious endearments tripped from the tongue that he sometimes thought the devil had touched. She delighted in pretending theirs had been a love match, much to his irritation, though they'd both long since known the truth.

But he ignored her inflection now. He stood there, his fat jowls ashen. ““Ada—”

“Why, whatever is it, lover?’ She put down her book falsely solicitous. “Tell Ada what troubles you.”

Her eyes, her lips mocked him. But halt- | ingly he forced himself to tell her of the thing in the road.

‘What an imagination you have, Osbert!” she said, when he finished. He writhed under the mocking way she pronounced his name. Everyone else called him Ozzie. “Are you sure you didn’t dream it all? Just as you dreamed of the vast riches you told me you had?”;

As usual, she succeeded in baiting him. His recent fear was swallowed up in a swift surge of anger. She’d never let him think well of himself. She seemed determined to tear down the facade he'd been years in building. He couldn’t stand it. It was getting under his skin.

“Stop talking to me like that!” he cried. “In that sneering, superior sort of way—’’

“Superior, Osbert?” The green eyes were delighted. “You know I’m definitely your inferior when it comes to turning a dis74

honest penny. Shady deals, gypping here, cheating there—’ “I can’t help it if I’m cleverer than other ople,”’ Ozzie said sullenly. ‘Anyway. ‘You're just sore because I lied about my income. Don’t know why you should feel so set up about yourself. You did the same thing to get me to marry you. You're no better than I am.” She stretched languidly, nodding agreement. “We're just a couple of bums who out-foxed ourselves. Hoist by our own petards, whatever they are. How the gods must have laughed! I suppose I ride you because you're such a stuffed shirt. I’m phony, and I know I'm phony. But you—you smalltime pork-and-beaner!” Her green glance -

withered him. “You try to fool even yourself. You can’t face the truth about yourself. Small wonder I find it such fun to deflate you, you big windbag!”

The lazy purl of her voice nearly maddened him. “If you don’t like it, why don’t you get out?”

“Oh, I will, duck, never fear. I’m keeping my eye open for a likely young feller. He might be slow in the coming, but in the meantime—” she gestured with the book in her hands—"“this is a roof over my head, and two can live as cheaply as one. Cheese and kisses with you, in a word, till my knight comes riding along.”

Ozzie gritted his teeth. If he could only slide his hands around that throat, claw at that smug, smiling face!

“Some day,” he snarled, “I’m going to kill you!”

But Ada only laughed. “Oh, no, you won't. You'll just continue to take anything I care to dish out, sweetheart. And like it. You’d never put your fat neck into a a just for the pleasure of finishing me off.

Well, that was true enough, Ozzie admitted to himself in a rare moment of honesty. But just the same, the time would come when he could get back at her safely. And when that day arrived, by gad—!

Be he was forgetting. With an effort, he controlled himself. Why did he idle in profitless argument with Ada when there was that creature in the road, up to who knew what?


“Come on,” he said. “We must warn Madame Gamorra. If that thing gets in among her Angora rabbits—”

Not that he gave a damn about Madame Gamorras’ rabbits. It was the woman herself, an enigma since moving here five months before. No one had been able to Jearn anything about her. It had galled Osbert more than a little that he’d been unable to add anything to the general lack of information, for he liked to as an oracle about the countryside and an authority on its inhabitants. Here was his chance to visit her house, learn something of her.

Besides, she a ed to be wealthy, and —who knows? There might be something in it for him.

Ada must have sensed his eagerness and made her own deductions. For perversely, to devil him, he supposed, she refused to go. “What's the old woman to me? When she first came here, I called, and she wouldn't even let me in. We've never seen her, except at a distance.”

“Then Pll go alone!”’ Osbert cried rashly.

“Hurry back, Romeo.” Ada returned to her book, indifferently. “You know how I pine when you're gone.”

Ozzie swallowed an oath. But he had to go now, despite his reluctance. Because if he stayed, Ada would know he was afraid. It would be one more thing for her acid tongue to scorge him with. Damned if he wouldn't rather face that horror in the road!

The driveway to the garage was dark, and he didn’t feel safe until he was in the sedan, with the doors shut. Even then he switched on the tonneau light to be sure there was no one—no thing—in the car with him. The dread of it returned in full force now that he was again alone.

He backed out, still smarting under the memory of Ada’s voice. He hated her, more and more. But what could he do? He had no grounds for divorce. He couldn’t even beat her, for he was afraid of ‘ber. Under that languid exterior, she could take care of herself. He remembered her long scarlet fingernails. Yes, she’d fight back, pointed teeth and blood-red claws, like the cat she was,

Oh, if he could only think of something!

His headlights picked out the bridge over the narrow gully, and again Ada was forTHE DIVERSIONS OF MME. GAMORRA 75

ees It was just this side the bridge that e’'d seen—#t. Panic overtook him again. What if the thing should run out in front of the car? What if he should run over it? In his imagination, he could feel the squish the thing would make under his tires. Ugh! His toes curled in his shoes at the thought.

It was a relief, then, to find the Gamorra farm dark when he reached it. Any respite was welcome. Anything that would keep him from the necessity of opening the ear door, setting foot in that dark driveway, overgrown as it was with shrubbery that afforded excellent hiding places for lurking monsters. What were a few Angora rabbits measured against that horror? By now he really believed himself they were his reason for coming.

Co Tomorrow would do as well,

He needn’t go back to Ada. He could drive instead to a tavern in town, and stay there late enough to insure that she would be asleep before he returned.

ees was no one in the place but the bartender and Quale, the town’s chief of police, who was having a beer. Osbert wanted companionship this night, longed for it. He lifted his bulk onto the stool next to Quale, though he knew the chief didn’t like him. But the fellow couldn’t very well get up and walk away, or ask Ozzie to sit some place else. It was a free country.

A conversation had evidently been going on for some time.

“,..and they don’t know what happened to him?” asked Joe, the bartender, polishing a glass.

“Disappeared, like that.” Quale sna his ‘ia oper “Last his wife corre went up to Gamorra’s to do some carpentry wor.

“Ain’t wimmen the darnedest?”’ marveled Joe. ‘Beatin’ ther evvey night, purt’near, and now she’s Iddkin’ for him, ’stead of bein’ thankful he’s gone.”

‘Remember the time he held his youngest kid’s hands against a hot stove for losing a dime?” Quale said. “I saw to.it he got thirty days for that myself, and wished it could have been more.”

“Who are you talking about?” Ozzie horned in.

The chief drank his beer then, so that Joe would have to answer. “Al Sneed.”

“Oh,” Ozzie remembered the hatchet face, the slitted sadistic mouth, the long lean figure in green-patched blue denims and torn tee shirt. He'd sold Al some substandard lumber last year, and he could still hear the thin mouth, voicing dire reprisals. But pshaw! Nothing had happened. Was it his fault Al wasn’t sharper? Let the buyer beware.

“A rat, if they ever was one, that guy,” Joe said. “He musta been just about the biggest rat in the world, you ask me.”

Quale nodded. Ozzie remembered with a shudder. Was everything going to remind him?

“No,” he said. “Not the biggest rat in

- the world. I saw that tonight up at Gamorta’s place.”

He told them, and whether they believed him or not, he didn’t know. Probably not. For Joe laughed.

“Say, maybe it was Al you seen,” Joe cracked, cackling.

Ozzie let it go. Let them think it was funny if they like. But he'd seen it. He. wished he could forget the damned thing, He'd dream of it tomght.

WE Chief Quale left, Joe shook his head sadly. “Yes, sir! Chief Quale is mighty upset about the disappearance of Al Sneed. He's got to find him, or it just won't look right.” “Can't see why,” Ozzie objected idly. “Al was worthless. Good riddance, I'd say. “Well’—” Joe let the word imply polite agreement. “Still when you take it with that other disappearance, why, say! Makes the chief look like he just don’t belong in his job.” de “What disappearance? Oh, you mean—”’ Joe nodded. “Annie Cowell. Up and gone these two months, no one knows where.” Ozzie remembered, but he did not sorrow. Nerve of that old maid, Annie, lighting into him just because he’d sold her mother that mining stock. Annie said her mother’s death was his fault, that her discovery the stock was worthless had killed the old woman. But pshaw! Her heart would have given out anytime, probably. When the garrulous, bitter Annie disappeared, it was no skin off

76 WEIRD. TALES

Ozzie’s nose. He’d been relieved, and had quickly forgotten her.

“’*Course there were plenty people,” Joe went on, ‘“‘who hated Annie. Said she was a malicious gossip, a viper. Said she whispered lies about that little young Mrs. Morton till she broke up with her husband. And she drove that druggist, Alwyn, out of business, hinting he made too many mistakes in prescriptions. Came out later, it was all lies, started because Alwyn went around with her for awhile, then dropped her.

“Yep, guess you could call Annie a viper, right enough. Well, anyway, she went up to that Mrs. Gamorra’s to do some sewing, and ain’t never been seen since. Mrs. Gamorra said she left when she finished her work, and that was all she knew about it.”

Joe surveyed the polished glass lovingly, chose another. He thus missed Ozzie’s start. But—Gamorra’s, Ozzie thought. Funny both disappearances should bring in Madame Gamorra.

Joe stopped polishing the glass. “Say, that’s kind of peculiar—’’

Ozzie held his breath. He didn’t want anyone else connecting those disappearances too obviously with Madame Gamorra. Not just yet, not till he found out if there could be anything in it for him, But he needn’t have worried. Joe was thinking of something else.

“Come to think of it,” Joe said, “both them people were like animals, kind of. If a snake's a animal. There was Annie, a viper, and Al, a rat.” Joe laughed sheepishly. “Well, shucks, I just thought of it,” he apologized.

Ozzie hardly heard him, for his mind was busy. More than ever he was determined to visit the mysterious Madame Gamorra. You never knew what could be turned to your profit. With which pleasant reflection he called it a day,

ADAME GAMORRA, OzzZie discovered next morning, was almost incredibly the wicked old duchess of fiction.. He’d half-expected to be denied entrance, at least at first, but she received him in the living room—hblack-clad, withered, her coiffure a dyed jet cuckoo’s nest above her raddled face. Her liver-spotted hands, covered with dirty gems, rested on the gold head of her

ebony stick. Her pointed chin rested on her hands. And her sharp black eyes watched Ozzie scrutably as he told her of the thing in the night.

Ozzie was in his best form. His courage, such as it was, always rose with the sun. Now—pink-shaven, white-flannel-clad, selfimportant—he was heroic.

“I retutned later, of course, with a gun to protect you,” Ozzie finished, lying pompously, ‘but I saw no sign of the creature. And as your place was dark, I hesitated to disturb you.”

“Ah, so?” Madame said. ‘That was most kind of you.”:

Didn't she believe him? Was there a faint ironic cast to her words of gratitude? Ozzie shifted somewhat uncomfortably under that steady gaze. The woman was amazingly self-contained. Prowling monsters, it would appear, had no power to alarm her.

“It looked like a monstrous rat,” he said uneasily.

“It was a rat,” Madame answered, her eyes on the rings.

“What!’’ Ozzie cried. “You've seen it, too? You know?”

Madame raised her head. “You misunderstood my inflection, Mr. Horland,” she said suavely. “I said: ‘It was a rat?’ ”

But she hadn’t raised her voice questioningly the first time, Ozzie was sure. She'd made a definite statement, and now must be trying to cover up her obvious break. He shifted uncertainly in his chair again. He scented something wrong here, radically wrong. Madame was much too polished. Urbanity, to Ozzie, was always suspicious. He used it himself when he was most nefariBut he'd better accept her explanation, for the moment, anyway. The wordly Madame Gamorra, he saw, was no silly creature to be stampeded easily into damaging admissions. His curiosity aroused to the boiling point, he turried the conversation to rabbit-breeding, about which he knew nothing and cared less, and hinted he’d like to see more of the Gamorra farm.

Again she surprised him by making no demur. He wondered if she knew he was wary of her, and hoped to allay his sus-. picions for all time by seeming frankness. At any rate, she rose and offered to show


him about the place. Despite the cane, she was neither lame nor feeble. Osbert would have preferred to poke about the farm for himself, but there was nothing for him to do bui offer Madame his arm.

They went out through the kitchen, where a middle-aged foreign-looking _ servant, whom Madame addressed as Tina, was stirring something in a pot on the coal-burning range. She Jooked up incuriously as they passed, but it seemed to Ozzie that a significant look was exchanged between maid and mistress.

The farm was smaller than he’d supposed, and there was really nothing to see but a series of whiie-washed hutches containing soft furry docile-looking rabbits. Only one thing aroused his interest. A small square white shed, nestling under maples, at the far end of the hutches. It looked innocuous enough in itself, but it seemed suspicious to Ozzie that Madame Gamorra was taking such elaborate pains that they should not approach this building too closely.

“And what is that structure there at the end?” Ozzie gestured grandiousely.

“It is nothing. Merely the shed in which the rabbits are plucked. Now over here, I plan a rock garden. Come. Your arm, if you please, Mr. Horland.”

The wind changed, and Ozzie thought he caught a faint whiff of something unpleasant from the direction of the shed. An odor of decay, and something else indefinable. Before he could determine with exactness what it was, Madame slipped her hand through his arm. It was done skillfully, but Ozzie had a feeling he was being out-maneuvered. Certainly Madame was succeeding in leading him farther away from the small white shed under the maples, covering her purpose with an effortless flow of small talk.

Osbert’s interest was whetted still more.

But the visit, as a whole, would have been duli and unproductive if they hadn’t elected to return by way of the kitchen. Perspiring freely from his slight exertion, he asked if he might have a drink before returning to his car. And thus it was that they came upon the maid, busily feeding clothing into the maw of the great black range, in which a fire was now roaring deSpite the heat of the summer day.

The sight seemed to arouse Madame to a


fury. She unloosed upon the maid a frenzy of foreign invective that reduced the woman to sniveling abjection, Abruptly the storm was over. A swift glance at the studiedly impassive Ozzie, and Madame erased all trace of emotion from her face.

Gently steering Ozzie from the kitchen into the entrance hall, Madame said, ““These servants. But they are of a stupidity! Wasting fuel, on such a day!”

But Ozzie wasn’t fooled. That wasn’t the source of her anger. He had seen. That clothing. The faded blue denim levis with their distinctive patch. The red and white striped tee shirt. It had been Al Sneed’s costume for months.

And Al Sneed had vanished.

Just as gently, Ozzie resisted Madame's efforts to propel him to the door. He turned instead back into the living room.

“I think I should like a further word with you, Madame Gamorra,” he suggested silkily. And his small eyes disappeared in creases of feigned good humor.

Mes evidently, was a fatalist. Good! It should simplify matters. One sharp glance, then she seated herself calmly enough opposite him, and the attention she bent upon him was admirably courteous. Ozzie, not to be out-done, was equally polished. They might, you’d have thought watching them, be going to indulge in a courtly discussion of abstract matters.

But Ozzie confidently spoke of murder.

“Chief Quale,” he began blandly, “‘is very anxious to locate Al Sneed.” A significant glance at Madame. “Or his body.”

Madame shrugged. “He would find no trace of Mr. Sneed here.”

“I recognized that clothing,” Ozzie said bluntly.

Madame spread her hands. “‘It is destroyed by now.”

The woman was fencing with him, Ozzie betrayed no annoyance. He waxed, instead, ponderously arch. “Come, Madame Gamorra! Enough of this quibbling. I can be a most persistent fellow, I assure you. If I should send Quale here, he'll make a thorough investigation next time. A word from me, and he’d be most interested in that shed out there that I’ll wager he skipped over before.”


This vas a shot in the dark, But it worked. Alarm flickered in the black eyes watching him so intently. Ozzie felt a glow of satisfactian.

“I see,” Madame satd thoughtfully. Surptisingly, she threw back her head and Jaughed heartily. Wiping tears of mirth from her eyes, she satd, ‘You are a most amusing gentleman, Mr. Horland. Shrewd, too. And your purpose in all this? Surely you can care nothing for the fate of Mr. Sneed. I understand men, Mr. Horland. ‘I can have your silence for a price, is it not so?”

Ozzie beamed. He couldn't rezis tubbing his hands together in his pleasure. This was more like it.

“Is it money you wish, Mr. Horland?” Madame regarded him amiably. “Name your price. I admit I should not like the—inconvenience, shall we say?—of an investigation into that shed. And money means nothing to me.”

Ordinarily, money would have been his first consideration. But that could wait until Jater. At the moment, something else was of prime importance to him,

“It would appear, Madame, that you have successfully murdered Al Sneed. I am equally confident,” Ozzie said, paying no atiention to Madame’s gesture of protest, “that you also murdered Annie Cowell.” Ozzie cast down his eyes, and sighed windily. “Alas, I am most unhappily married.”

He looked up under his thick white eyelids at her. Madame needed no diagrams. “It is your suggestion, then, I murder your wife?”:

It was Ozzie’s turn to look shocked. “Madame! Need we put it so baldly?”

Her rings seemed to fascinate her, She never took her eyes off them. ‘There is only one error in your reasoning, Mr. Horland. } didn’t murder those two people. I merely turned them into the creatures that they were.”

Ozzie looked annoyed for the first time. “You disappoint me, Madame Gamorra.”

ID she think him a fool? Certainly she had murdered: Al and Annie. ‘fheir bodies were buried beneath that shed out there. Why elsc.vas she so anxious to avoid a visit from Quale?


She was looking at him now, shaking her head. “You do not believe. You think I am insulting your intelligence. Nevertheless, I speak the truth.”

It was ridiculous to prolong the discussion. But he heard himself asking, “What would be your purpose, even supposing—?”’

“Ah, zut!’ Madame clicked a thumbnail contemptuously against her teeth. ‘Always there must be the reason for everything, the logic. Can nothing, then, be done for one’s own amusement? But listen, if you musi. Long ago, in another country, my late husband was a power in politics. In the course of time, he fell into disfavor with a certain regime, involved himself in serious trouble. Trouble from which his friends might have rescued him. But did they? They did not, Mr. Horland. ‘Fhey turned their backs. They took, but they never gave. Ah, we learned then what some people could be like! In his despair, my husband killed himself.”

Madame’s eyes blazed, fire behind ash. “Later, in my bitterness, F reflected upon this: What, I wondered, would they be like if people of that sort were reduced to their least common denominators, their unpleasant qualities magnified? What manner of ugliness should we not look upon? The idea held interesting possibilities to ene in my frame of mind. I had loved my husband dearly. Perhaps, in my grief, I had grown a little mad. But, at any rate, I began to investigate, to probe into things perhaps best forgotten.”

Ozzie’s bulk seemed to shrivel in his chair, though he felt his cowering to be absurd. Surely he would be more than a match fot this crazy old weman if she should gtow violent?

“Dusty books, dead legends,’ Madame was saying softly, remembering. “I shall not bore you with a recital of my researches. It is enough to say that the peasants of my country, stupid though they appear outwardly, know many things they do not tell. They taught me much. Teo mach, perhaps.” For

_an instant the black eyes were hooded as if

they could not bear to contemplate the things that they’d looked upon. “Ht was fascinating, fascinating. I experimented over a period of many years. At long last, successfully. Ah, Mr. Horland, you should have seen my lovely collection of—shall we call them animals, for lack of a better word?”


Ozzie shut his jaw with a snap. The woman’s voice had been persuasive. ““Whzie are they?” he asked, in spite of himself.

“The war, the war,” Madame said impatiently. “I was forced to destroy them when I fled. Now I start anew. A smaller collection, perhaps. but more select. Tina, on her errands, learns and brings me gossip of the more unpieasant characters about the countryside. I find her help invaluable.”

Madame eyed him grimly. “So you speak no more to me of murder, Mr. Horland, Your wife? Certainly. 1 shall be happy to dispose of your wife, that I may be left to my hobby in peace. I, Luzia Gamorra, offer you my assurances.”

Madame sank back, exhausted.

Ozzie stated. Though her cold emotionless words had sounded so cerebral, clearly the woman was insane. But—was that bad? Insane people were often crafty. Certainly she’d been clever enough in the past to fool Chief Quale. What did it matter, then, if Madame chese to think herself a Circe, rather than a murderess? For of course her story was ridiculous.

True, he’d seen with his own eyes that monstrous rat in the road. But faugh! Kt had probably been small enough. Only magnified by darkness and the flitting moonlight and his cwn shock at seeing it. A freak, no doubt, escaped from a traveling carnival. What did it matter? The important thing was to get rid of Ada.

“It is agreed, then,” Ozzie said, collecting himself. “There remains only the difficulty of getting Ada here.”

Sees will not be necessary,” Madame said.

Ozzie impauently waved her to silence. Did she think he wanted Ada murdered in his own house? Madame’s reasoning was erratic. But then, of course, she was a lunatic.

“TH send Ada here tomorrow,” he said. “Wait till then,”

An greeted Sim with an emerald glance of distrust.

“What have you been up to now, my sweet?”

“Up to?” Oxzie looked shocked. ‘My dear Ada!”


“Ah, ah, ah!” She wagged a chiding finger. “You can't fool Ada. Canary feathers on your chin, dear heart! Don’t tell me you've succeeded in rooking Madame Gamorra already?”

“Not at all,” Ozzie denied stiffly. He must play this right—so much depended on it. “I found her very charming. She and her neph—”

Ozzie stopped in embarrassed confusion, pretended to bite his lip. Ada smiled thinly. nephew? around,”

“He has just arrived for a visit.” Ozzie made it seem a grudging admission.

Reluctantly—or so it appeared—he Iet her pump him for the rest. And gradually there emerged a picture of a young man, unattached, handsome enough, apparently moneyed, The nephew of Madame Gamorta, who had no existence save in the fertile imagination of Osbert Horland.

Ada was puzzled when he finished. “He sounds like the ideal second husband for me. I wonder this hasn’t occurred to you? It seems strange you were so unwilling to tell me about him. Surely it would be fatuous of me to suspect you of jealousy?”

Osbert’s glance agreed that it would, indeed.

Ada threw back her head and laughed. “There is only one other possibility, then. You planned to ‘take’ this young man yourself before I could do any mischief.”

Ozzie permitted himself to look crestfallen, But his soul was doing nip-ups inside. It was working! It was working!

Ada looked at his sulky face, and laughed again. “Oh, Osbert! You'll be the death of me yet.”” She sobered suddenly and her eyes narrowed. ‘‘Get this, stupid. You're still in the bush leagues, and no match for me. You're riding for a disappointment, for I’m calling on Madame Gamorra tomorrow.”

Ozzie said nothing at all. Stupid, eh? If Ada only knew!

“Oh, she has a I wonder I’ve never scen him

4 Sy to her promise, Ada left next after:. noon for the Gamorra farm.

And she did not return.

Ozzie hardly dared to hope. He danced on the hot sands of suspense all that after80

noon and night. Ht was the following morning befere he got in touch with Chief Quale, telling the man no more than was necessary. His wife had set out the previous afternoon for a walk, and she had not returned. No, there’d been no domestie differences. Yes, he was completely at a loss to explain her disappearance.

Quale, looking none too happy, promised to get busy on it.

Ozzie returned home. He had a bad moment at eleven o’elock when the bell rang. Damn it! He must stop this guilty jumping.

But it wasn’t Ada. It was the surly Tina.

‘Madame would like to speak to you,’ Tina gestured toward the road with the buggy whip she held in her hand.

Madame, still in her elegant rusty black, sat erect in a carriage beyond the gate. Ozzie wondered fleetingly where she had ever resurrected the vehicle; it suited her style. He lost no time in getting down the walk.

She greeted him with a slight inclination of her head. “I thought you would like to know that everything went off well.”

Air leaped into Ozzie’s. lungs. mean—?”

Madame tapped his arm lightly. ‘‘I have such a lovely new pet, Mr. Horland. Though lovely only to my own eyes, perhaps.”

“A p-pet?” “But certainly. unusual black cat!”

Ozzie understood then. Madame was still pretending. He ignored her circumlocutions. His heart leaped, and he exulted. It was done. Ada was dead. For a second he shivered apprehensively. Murder! No wonder Madame Gamorra shied from the word. But pshaw! He was safe enough. No one knew but himself and this foolish old woman. He could go on now to other things.

“Fine!” Ozzie said. ‘And now that that’s out of the way, we can clinch the bargain.”

Madame looked at him askance. ‘‘I don’t understand you. I have fulfilled my part of the bargain. It is finished.”

Ozzie shook his head, mock-regretfully. “Money, now. I must have money. You see, I reported Ada’s disappearance to Chief Quale. But I neglected to mention the fact that the last time I saw her she. was on her way to visit you. I’m afraid I led the good

“You

A cat. Oh, but a most


chief to believe she merely went out for an aimless walk.” Odzzie cleared his throat delicately. “I should dislike to have it rectify any erroneous impression he might have received.”

He smiled affably.

Madame pursed her thin old lips, and looked at him searchingly. “Ah, so. 1 under-estimated you, Mr. Horland. How you must have laughed at my naivete! But surely I am worldly enough to appreciate the jest, too. Come then.” Her gesture invited him into the carriage. “We will drive to my place. I carry about with me no such sum as you doubtless expect to receive.

But Ozzie made no move to get in. “I fear you're still under-estimating me.” He chuckled jocosely. “HH I go to your farm, there is always the possibility I might join Ada. I shouldn’t hike a knife in my ribs, of poison in my drink.”

Madame chose to find this entertaining. She shook her head fondly, as at an engaging child. ‘‘I’ve said it before. You're an amusing scoundrel, Mr. Horland. Ctever, too.”

‘“Fhere isn’t any hay in my hair,” Ozzie admitted smugly.

“Tl send the money to yeu tomorrow. Come, Tina.”

Ozzie watched the carriage roll off, the sand dripping from its wheels. He was glad she'd been so sensible about it all, but he thought it strange that she was still laughing as she drove away, for he’d stipulated a rather fantastic sum. Her cheerfulness diseoncerted him a little until he reflected that, of course, the woman was mad.

Ozzie spent the rest of that day immensely pleased with himself. Every few minutes, quite unconscious he was doing so, he rubbed his hands together and chuckled. With the money he’d receive from Madame Gamotra, he could leave here and go to some city where there would be greater scope for a man of his talents. True, there’d be a slight delay. He must wait long enough for the talk of Ada’s disappearance to die down. He must arouse no suspicion till Quale finished his investigations.

At the mental picture of Quale, even now busily engaged no doubt in running himself bow-legged after clues to Ada’s disappearTHE DIVERSIONS OF MME. GAMORRA 81

ance, Ozzie chortled and slapped his fat thigh. He wouldn’t mind waiting. Net when he, and he alone, could really savor the joke.

Ah, but it was peaceful with Ada gone! No more would he be driven from his own home by the lash of her scorpion tongue. He read. He puttered about. He was still hixurtating in the freedom of it all when he retired that night.

BE E AWAKENED with a start at three

o'clock. His brow was wet with sweat. His lungs were laboring, his limbs threshing about on the bed. His eyes rolled widely, seeking aid that was not there. He cowered in superstitious terror, from this nameless feeling of menace. What was wrong? What was the matter with him?

It was growing stronger. Every atom of his being wanted to stay here where he was. Here in the quict of his room. But there was this other thing. This inner urgency, this mad compulsion to rise. He was rising. He was on his feet, staggering to the hall, slipping, sliding down the stairs.

“No!” He sobbed weakly, his fat jowls shaking in terror. He fought every inch of the way, hanging back, digging his heels into the smooth oak of the steps, throwing the weight of his great bulk backward. He clung to the newel post, his wet fingers slipped.

New sensations now. Growing even more intense. Air, he must have air! He clawed at his night-clothes. His gross body stripped, his eyes still rolling wildly, he slipped and slid across the floor.

SAPENUUUEDERUDDRADERBENNEOEARUDOGEOREULECUEEROBEDOEUEROREEGOUOORODEQUREOUOUOEUEOEEQUEUGOOQEDROUEEEREOSOBOOEOEEOREQESSS 0 QEEEDOQEELD

A novelette of chills....

who tells us about the

by that master of w-e-i-r-d fictiom....


{Ton C 39 wice ee |

coming im the next WEIRD TALES

He heard it now. Someone was calling. “Come, Mr. Horland! A moi, my lovely! To me!”

Softly, gently came the culls, yet they would not be denied. Oh, that voice! Seductive. Irresistible. Bittersweet. Honey over acid. He knew now. She was doing this. She wasn’t fooling him.

The door. Oh, God!.He had to open the door. He wanted to go there now. He was out! He was free! He was running down the Jong white sandy road leading to Madame Gamorra’s. He was going to kill her! To rend, to tear, to mutilate—!

Bo he fawned, he groveled. For she was waiting at her gate, still in somber black, a lantern in her hand. Ad her eyes and rings gave off an unhely Hight.

“Come, my pretty ene!’ wheedled Madame Gamorra, leading him down the winding lane to that shed under the maples.

He laughed in mounting-hysteria. Slavering, he licked her hand. Obediently, he followed.

‘The others—they’re waiting for you. The cat, the rat, the viper. Listen to them!’ A hissing, a spitting, a snarling. ‘‘How pleased they are at your coming!”

The thing at her side shrilled now piteously. But there was no one else to hear. Only the moon saw Madame open the door and admit to the eager presence of the others, a ponderous creature that might have been—

But, wait! Look again! Surely there was never cast in so grotesque a mold—such a hideous hyena?


a

Thousands of years ago I had come here fust; it had taken all this time to prepare me.

ORED, eh?” I passed my hand through the whirling, leaping flames and nodded, miserably.

“Hmmm. How long have you been here?”

He knew as well as I did. He was just teasing me. His great, yellow eyes had a trace of unmistakable amusement.

To show that I wasn’t nettled, I fondled one of the glowing coals and watched the steam form unpatterned traceries through cay fingers. “Three thousand years.”



“And one month, fourteen days and thirty-seven minutes,” he gravely amended.

I nodded again.

“Don’t we treat you right?’’ His back was to me, but I knew that he was watching me closely just the same.

“Yes, Great Prince.”

“You've received steady promotions, haven't you?”

“Yes, Great Prince.” I kept my voice as steady as I could. It was not easy. I have seen what happened to others who didn’t respond correctly to his questionings. Even

Heading by A, R. TILBURNE

ALL THE TIME IN THE WORLD 83

I, much used to certain sights, have felt dazed and faint at such times.

He turned suddenly and let his hot he bathe me with lurid light. I knew what _he was doing and I was terribly, unaccountably frightened.. Unaccountably, because I had not lied to him. Still, it is horribly unpleasant to know that your mind is being stripped clean and bare without yeur having the slightest chance of evading or resisting the process. Not that I would try to resist. I have seen the mottled remains of those who did....

And my mind swept back to “that moment, thousands of years ago, when I had first come here. I had Jed a hasd life, and a vicious life, but it had been quite successful from the viewpoint of financial success.

Many men... and women too... had fallen quick victims to my dagger or stranhee cord. I suppose the only good thing that I can claim is that I never attacked the peor. There was no reason to, of course. They had nothing worth stealing. I had finally been caught, as I knew I some day would.

I lived three days through the torture.

I had never known that pain could be so exquisite. When they were finished with me J hadn’t a whole bone in my body. 1 was just a mass of bloated flesh that could be formed into different shapes by kneading with the fingers. I couldn't scream curses at them because they had sewn my lips together... but before I died I made a mental vow. If there was a hereafter, and if we IMeUee.-; Well, we did. But I was running ahead of myself. Again my mind went back to the time when I had first opened my eyes. My fitst reaction had been one of surprise that I was still alive, but then I saw that I wasn’t. Not alive, at any rate, as you would know it.

Anyway, amazingly enough I was standing on my feet. The feet, you will remember, which I had last seen as shapeless blobs of flaccid flesh.

“Name, please.”

And when I had answered it came to me that my lips were no longer sewn together.

My questioner had looked up at me with quickened interest on hearing my name. His

tail had dropped the writing implement it had been using, and its twitching motion had plainly beckoned me to follow.

We HAD passed through many doors and along many twisting lanes. The walls gleamed redly... then seemed to move. But then I saw that it was only the red fluid on them that moved. It seemed to come from somewhere above, and I hadn’t understood until a suddem burst of screams tapered off to strangled sobbing some place above me. I had realized then what the red fluid was... and where F was.

“This is as far as I go,” my guide had grunted. He must have felt my amazement as I stared at the wall of twisting, flaring flame.

_“Don’t worry about that stuff... now. You're under His protection because He's expecting you. Go in and... good luck!”

I had tried to hold back, but it hadn't worked. Not even for an instant. There I was, moving through the dancing, flickering flames... moving toward the great figure indolently sprawled on an ebony throne.

He had been caressing something in his huge hands. He had moved it this way and that, bending it, twisting it, occasionally rolling it into a ball. Heavy shadows had prevented me from seeing what it was, at first, but as I had drawn nearer the thin, tortured screaming from the object crumpled in his fingers corroborated what my eyes had tried to reject. I had led a life replete with viciousness; there was nothing that I had not done or attempted’... but I confess that I averted my eyes from what He was doing to that human body.

He chuckled, and the sound was like rolling thunder: ‘Now don’t tell me that you’re squeamish.”

‘I’m sorry if I’ve offended you, Great Prince.”

Yellow, enormous, the slanted orbs regarded me a moment. Then: “You've been given quite a privilege, you know.”

“Thank you, Great Prince.”

He tossed the mangled body into a corner where it continued to seream thinly. “Your earthly dossier proves that you have served me constantly, and well. I am pleased with you.” His shining, jet hooves scratched


against the floor as he rose from the throne. “Come along. I'll show you your assignment.”

Interminable corridors had been left behind when we finally arrived in a small room. Hooks were fastened to the white hot walls, and on each hook was impaled a human body. There were men and women, both, and a scattering of children. All faces were a blend of two expressions. Evil... and suffering.

A taloned finger flicked toward a table in the room’s center. ““You’ll find some amusing instruments there. If you can’ devise any new ones the shops will be only too happy to make them for you.” The cleft hooves had clicked across the floor, and I was alone.

I had been good at my work from the start,

A natural aptitude, I imagine. Anyway, the volume of shrieks, howls, groans and wailings I’d produced in my small workroom must have pleased him, It wasn’t long before I’d been promoted to a larger place. Of course I really did my best work when my earthly torturers were, in time, consigned to me.

It was very enjoyable because I had limitless time in which to improvise. They had died once, and couldn’t die again. You see?

SHORT bark of laughter caught me

up abruptly. He had been following my thoughts and apparently He was entertained. “So you are bored. Well, you're a good man—one of the best—and deserve a vacation.”

I fell upon my knees in gratitude, but His sinuous tail jerked me erect. “No,” he smiled, “let us thrash this out as man to—

He certainly was in good humor.

“What would you like to do?”

“Anything, Great Prince, in which I can serve you.”

I meant it. And he knew it. “Very well. There is something which can afford both of us pleasure. However, it is dangerous... for you.”

“J am ready, Great Prince.”

His vast wings flapped idly. “I will send you to Harth for a while. You, without saying, will know what to do there.”

Humbly I answered: “Spend my time, and


efforts, Great Prince, recruiting subjects for your domain.”

“You haven’t asked me about the dangenie

“No peril is too great to be borne in your service, Great Prince.”

He smiled, and his red teeth shone brightly. “Heed me, loyal one. On Earth you will seem as all others... unless you wish to change form. You will have that power—and many others. But my power, large as it is, is circumscribed. It is the immutable way of things and there is no changing it. If 1 repeat myself, it is only because you, loyal one, must be aware of the hazard which I can neither prevent nor remedy.

“As I have told you, your powers will be many and yours to command. Only—beware your bloodstream. You will be immortal.., impervious completely to destruction no matter what befalls... but the fluid in you must not be contaminated!”

Back in the enormous, vaulted chamber, of which I had become Supervisor, I formulated my plans. 1 was not going to do anything that would cause undue comment at the beginning. Only fools would do that. Once I had seen my way around, and placed circumstances, I'd have plenty of time for extemporizing. One thing He hatl repeated to me clung tenaciously. I would be indestructible—but I would show signs of hurt. Nothing could disturb my immortality... only that outwardly, for a space, I would have all the signs and symptoms of human weakness of body if it were necessary. Undoubtedly this was necessary, if only to avoid questions... and suspicion,

Everything resolved itself and I was happy. My plan of action was set. I felt so good that I picked up an instrument of my own design and went over to one of the sobbing bodies hanging on the wall. My assistants were surprised because this was no longer part of my work. I outlined persecutions and savageries, even improved on them occasionally, but left the physical action to my crew. ‘This, however, was a great moment and deserved some special attention.

My assistants naturally fawned as I worked upon the shrieking flesh that swayed

‘before me. Frankly, though, I fully believe

ALL THE TIME IN THE WORLD 85

that I outdid myself. It is no idle boast to say that when I got through you could not identify the tattered remnants that littered the smoking floor. Except—naturally—that they kept screaming!

No Blakely Julius was a very sick man. He was going to die unless, as his doctor said, he acquired the will to live. Blakely Julius didn’t want to live... and I could understand that.- For some time now I had had him marked in my ledger as a future assistant.

Yes, he was that bad. That is, as bad as you would call it. His actions had always proven that he would be wonderful administrative material for the Great Prince.

However, his conscience had tricked him and caught up with him. He wanted to die. That was all right... but not if he died bis way. We'd get him, anyway, but it would simply mean that we'd have to receive him as a victim. No. He was too good material to lose. So, before his conscience could betray him, he would die ozr way. It would serve the double purpose of serving the Great Prince well, and give me the chance of entering the world of Men unobtrusively.

At the same moment that his soul was whisked by me, down to the Great Prince, Blakely Julius opened his eyes. I was Blakely Julius.

“Darling... darling... speak to me... Say you're going to live...” -

I looked up at the fat, heavily made-up face that hovered above me with such saccharine solicitousness. So this is my wife, ‘thought. A sharp, quick probing into her mind told me all that I had to know. She would make a fine victim for one of my assistants to work upon.

“Darling! Say something... please!”

And her nasty, brutish little mind said: Ob, why doesn’t he diel What keeps the fool hanging on so? It’s just his meanness and stubbornness... and here I have such

| ae “Hello, honey, I feel much better.” Her mind: No! He can’t do this to me!

He just can’t! He’s going to die.... HE MUST DIE!’

Her voice: “How wonderful! ling, I’m so happy.”

The doctor bent over me. ‘‘That’s fine, Mr. Julius. You’ve done what I could not do for you. You want to live again... and you certainly shall.”

T smiled.

Oh, darf ieiee was no purpose in rushing things. I had plenty of time. I had Eternity. I stayed in bed for a week, showing, by proper signs, that I was regaining my strength.

Watching my new-found wife was an endless source of entertainment. She so obviously wanted to kill me, and yet didn’t dare. Bending over me, feeding me, I'd probe her mind and find. it hard not to gtin. Poisons of all sorts would silently occur to her and as silently be rejected. I would certainly have had a Jot more respect for her if she'd tried something. The thoroughly damned fool couldn’t know that it would have helped her if she’d tried to kill me. It would have caused me to lessen her tortures below—but she didn’t, which gave me pleasurable speculation on her future treatment in the Great Prince’s domain.

Seven days behind me, and I got up. She argued prettily against it, but I insisted.

Then, as I was finishing my coffee at the table: “Please be careful, sweet. Since you do insist on going to the office, watch yourself on street corners and don’t walk too fast.” -

Her mind: Let him die! Oh, God, let a taxi or a truck catch him and...

My mind: Don’t worry, my pet, things are going to work out all right... but not for you. I’ve got plans for you. I will unfold them tonight....

Aloud: “Ill be careful, honey... and thanks for everything. I’lt have a big surprise for you tonight.’’ At the door I kissed her, laughed inwardly at what she was thinking, and went down the walk to the bus_ stop.

My thoughts were busy as I rode to my office. I knew, naturally, about my employees; several I had. already earmarked. Their minds would always be opep to me for necessary information. No, it wasnt


that. It was concern about starting something big that would insure a steady delivery of mortal merchandise to the Great Prince. Short as the time I'd been on Earth I was already itching for action. I was always ambitious.

I got out at my stop, walked into my building and was whisked up to my office. I'd toyed with the thought of material.zing myself at my desk, but there’s a time and a place for humor. I am a very logical person. I always have beén.

OPENED the door to the main office

and entered. My employees were lined up to receive me. Their congratulations upon my recovery fell in waves about me as I made for my desk. Most of them didn’t mean it, and they were the ones whose voices sung their gratitude the loudest.

Old Hamilton was pathetically glad: “It is good to see you again, sir. We were all quite worried.” He meant it, too. He was the type who drew his salary and repaid it in full with loyalty.

“Thank you, Hamilton. By the way, how is your son?”

“He is improving, sir. The doctors say it is a matter of time.”

It wasn't a matter of time at all. An instant of inner probing into his mind told me that. His son needed the attention of high-priced specialists. Hamilton couldn't afford that. As he walked away, my will slipped a quick thought into his unsuspecting head. By nightfall he would be resenting the fact that I had money for expensive medical attention and that his son hadn't. Tomorrow he would spend in brooding over ways and means of getting the money; and by nightfall he would have found a way of getting at the cash in the safe.

He would be caught. The Hamiltons of this world always are. The shame of giving way to dishonesty would be too much for him. Suicide, to him, would be the only way out. The Great Prince would welcome Hamilton to his realm... personally.

He is very fond of one-time sinners who take themselves—and their egos—-so seriously. He reserves a special treatment for them. It is very interesting... and very agonizing.

I let my eyes rove over the rest of them.


I had plans. Many plans. The hours fled quickly with my thinking. My secretary brought me some papers to sign as the others said their goodnights and left for the day.

“You looked worried, Miss Ellsworth.”

“I... I'm sorry, Mr. Julius. It’s my fiance. He’s on a selling trip.... I haven't heard from him in two weeks,...”

Her fiance was, at that very moment, hurrying home. His trip had been a very successful one; provided him with the money they’d needed to get married upon and set up a home.

A quick, last look to make sure we were the only ones in the office, and then I let my form dissolve... change....

The doctor, who came up in response toe my telephone call, shook his head sadly.

“She'll pull through this, Mr. Julius, but her heart—bad!”

“Liable to go any time, eh?”

“Yes. Too bad—she’s so young... and good looking...”

All very amusing. On learning the new condition of her heart she would feel it unfair to get married, Her fiance—impetuous, young—would insist. There would be strain between them. A strain that would lead to wounds that would not heal. What made it all the better was that their love was a genuine one. Their lives would be irretrievably shattered... their unhappiness complete.

Once again I was alone. I locked the office and, on a sudden whim, waited for the elevator. It was a rewarding experience because it was quite full. I stepped back, saying I would wait for the next trip.

It goes without saying that there was no next trip. An instantaneous change into demonic form... the elevator cables shrivelling between my flaming fingers... the loaded car plunging wildly down the shaft... a pretty picture.”

I laughed all the way home!

M* WIFE was very careful to convince me of her love, that night. Her puerile mind had decided, during the day, that I was to be done away with. An overdose of sleeping tablets was what this futile female had decreed for me. My death would be ascribed to my getting out of a sick bed too soon,


Dinner over, we retired to the living room and pretended to read. She was going over, mentally, the method she would use to convince me to take the drugged drink she’d prepared. I made it easy for her.

“Tomorrow's going to be a tough day at | the office, honey. Sure wish 1 had something that would help me get a good night's rest.”

She got up so fast that her chair went over. Her words came tumbling out. “Why, | darling, I have just the thing for you. I bought some nice wine today. Fl get it at once—

She was so obvious about it all that I al-| most felt sorry for her. As she poured the j wine before me, she spilled a few scarlet drops in her nervous haste.

“Here... it will make you feel much, much better.”

I took a sip and nearly gagged. The fool must have dissolved an entire box of the sleeping tablets in the wine. The taste couldn’t have fooled an idiot.

“What... what's the matter, dear?”

“Nothing,” T tephed; = it si-fine-— 1 downed it all in a gulp. ‘How about another?”

Her good fortune almost demoralized her. The frantic speed with which she refilled my glass was pitiful. I tossed this one down as fast as the other.

Then I went into my act. I had, of necessity, to pass out for a while because the body I was using was human. She must have used the time making up her mind what speech she was going to give the doctor she would summon. Also, the histrionics she would deliver with wifely tears.

As my eyes opened she was about to lift the phone off its cradle.

I willed her to look at me.

Her mouth opened. Closed. No sound came forth. Her eyes widened... became glazed. She wasn’t pretty to look at—and, for that matter, neither was I!

I let the flesh slough from my frame in chunks. I let my skeletal remains crumble to the floor in a disordered heap..

A long, low moan was coming from deep within her. Her fingers kept plucking at her face.

I reassembled my body, except for my head. That, I kept in my lap as I sat down

4 24k.GOLD PLATED BIRTHSTONE RING

Sweetheart Design! € BEAUTIFUL Heart SHAPED STONE ue

LADIES! Wear this lovely ring set with your very owm

Simulated Birthstone. Genuine eae

Pe; — vt Select Your Very Own

Simulated Birthstone ibe or money back. Act ‘owl ar condi=

Br Hons smay makeitimpossibleto duplicate to come,


Justnameandmonth you werel born. eee,

sone - + + Ruby ~ only 98¢ pl

es sere sire & ) } Portring or $1.6 plas fax fe for d postage October - Bug nNanr MERCHANDISE MART

INovember-Gold’ ‘n Sapphire pa

December szircon AS RIGAGO 7 100 ite


* FOR MUSICAL SETTING *

Send one or more of your best song poems for immediate examination by famous, band leader with N. Y. AND HOLLYWOOD CONNECTIONS. FREE Rhyming Dictionary

SGREEN MUSIC SERVICE Dept. B 445 Loeb Arcade, Minneapolis 2, Minn.

ANY BOOK IN PRINT!

Delivered at your door. We pay postage. Standart euthors, new. popular editions, fiction, refer qce, medical, mechanical, idren’s books, eta —ali at guaranteed savings. Send. card now fa Clarkson’s 1946 Catalog. FR EE Write for our great illustrated book catalog. A short courso literature. The buying fide of 300,000 book lovers, FREE if you write OW—TODAY! = ARKSON PUBLISHING COMPANY port “Hwee 1253 S Wabash Ave., Chicago 5, Ih

raiwew RECHEW

HERE’S a valuable book io 150 Electrical and Radio wiring

diagrams with charts and instructions, Practical informationyou peed to winsscanty and promotion. It’s yours FREB merely for examining my 7-Volume Set on Applied Practical Electricity on day's. This 7-Volume fet COVERS EVE

DAG-DC MOTORS and E MENT. Thousands Me diagrams an and photos... written so both “‘beginners” and ‘‘old- timers” can easily understand.

7-DAY’S FREE TRI TRIAL « I want to send vou the 7~

volume set: *

Post aid, for 7-day’s FREE examination, rare sino send you book of 150 Shop Prints which you are to keep as wdless of whether or not you

pee the 17 book set. (Nosalesman willcall.} Gend L(y Offer Limited~=Send Coupon Now!

"NOT AN "ORDER = JUST Aj

FREE "OUPINY ® REQUEST TO SEE BOOKS

i oes seat Ln aa Fane Scheel Dent? i hop, Prints S which! LESS ae

eps seal 7 potions get. the 7-book eet in? ‘days and kee

ift from @ you not! ee 0

hi a month ‘anti $21 is bis Paid | ou Til oe

FREE

en LON Cree STA TE ee ee gheck rant to Ba) 1.25 ing th jtman Se fhe sash ips of rset on “aathye ime 7-day" examinae f

PRINT ARY PHOTO!

on Paper.Cloth, Leather or Wood

SIMPLE, EASY TO USE

Magic tiquid takes only 2 minutes to reproduce any snapshot you have on to stationery, handkerchiefs, ties, scarfs, ete. Won't wash of. Won't hurt negative or fabric it’s used on. Personalize your belongings! An ideal gift. Complete outfit with full R

CHRISTY PHOTO SUPPLY Dest. 1412 28385 N. Gentrail, Chicago

NVENTORS

INDUSTRY NEEDS YOUR IDEAS Now! Two Reasons: 1.

eflities can handle; factories must have productz te take Slack after war orders. Your ebhance comes with patent protection now—dolay may endanger your chance. Get cur NEW FREE Inventor's Book today and valuable “Invention * form. ‘This request Goes net sbiigate yon dot nom. Write today. MeMORBOW & BERMAN Patent Attornezs 129.L Atlantic Bullding Washington 4, BD. &

tain friends. Low price. Mone

fuapician Hark oy Sarr aad ng Speen Snag, Noa


‘We are interested In all types of son oems and lyrics, Send in yours for FREE aximiseion. If accepted, professional songwriter will collaborate with you. Fifteen years’ experience. Write to:

PARALIOUNT SONG-KEECORDING STUDIO, N-6, Box 190, Hollywood, Calif,


Seat a eae - OR YOUR MONEY BACK end for a Jar o arl’s Texture Cream, used fully for the treatment of Blackheads. If after 2. erent. ments your skin is not free of Blackheads we will refund your money immediately. Lubricates and

cleanses the skin with utmost efficiency. Price $1.20

including Tax and Postage. C. O. D.’s accepted. CHARL’S COSMETIC CO. 645 Fifth Ave. (

Dept. L-9) # New York 1%, N. ¥. ‘Learn Profitable Profession in.QO days at: Home

MEN AND WOMEN. 18 TO 50—Many Swedish Massage graduates make $50, $75 or even mere per week. ‘<9 full time incorses from doctors, hospitals, oriums, clubs or private practice. Others make good money in spare time. You can win indeand prepare for future security by

FREE-Now! THE College of Swedish Masage, Dept.512-R, 100E.ObioSt.,Chioage 11, 11h


in my chair, One of its eyes winked lewdly at her.

Her eyes rolled crazily in her head until only the whites showed. Her body hit the floor with a sodden plop.

I disposed of the drugged wine, replaced my head upon my shoulders and called for help from a nearby hospital.

It took four strong internes to carry her off. They finally had to use a strait-jacket. Believe me when I tell you that she will continue screaming until the moment she dies. A very unpleasant woman... 4 very, unpleasant fate.... Sz.

I slept well.

Was morning gave promise of a successful day. Breakfasting in the comet drugstore gave me a chance to get in some small touches. 1 did something to the brain of the clerk behind the drug dispensing counter. The prescriptions he would mix that day would serve purposes that would raise me even higher in the estimations of the Great Prince.

I tipped the counter girl well and left. It was a beautiful day and my spirits were high. I was crossing the street when it happened.

The traffic lights were changing and shooting out of a side street came a car determined to beat the signal. A taxi on the avenue had already leaped forward. Both drivers swung their wheels hard in an effort to avoid each other, but it was too late.

The wheels slewed and the metal bodies came together with a grinding crash, then

| bounced apart. It all happened too fast fot

me to do anything. ‘The crazily careening

{taxi slammed into my humian body and

darkness descended upon me.

I was dreaming... something was happening... I was carried... I tried to talk. "I couldn’t... dreaming... there were long corridors... they were doing things to me... warning... something warning... couldn’t stop them... tried... couldn't... dreaming... warning... terrible of tel co

es... pitying... worried... pitying a: ech: © iene: as

“There, old man, don’t toss yourself around so. It's rest you need.”

My eyes opened. Looked wildly around.


“Take it easy now,” the voice continued,

“you're in a hospital... but you’re going to

be all right. You'll be up and around before too Jong.”

I tried to keep my voice calm. I kept it weak... deliberately. My human body had had its shock and now, on awakening, my immortality had made me as good as new. That was something, though, which I could not let them suspect. So, weakly: “How

. how long have I been here, Doctor?”

“You were brought in unconscious twelve hours ago. Pretty badly bunged up, too, but that’s been all patched up. Matter of rest, now... steady recovery.

Gruelling to keep up the pretense of acting in a normal manner when there were so many questions to ask. It was better to go slowly... slowly...

“Thanks for everything, Doctor; I owe you my life.”

“Nonsense, old man. We did our best— and luckily it was good enough.”

“Did... did I lose much blood?”

He patted my shoulder. “Don’t you think you ought to save your questions until you're a bit stronger?”

TRONGER! It was all I could do not to tear his throat out as he evaded my question!

“Please, Doctor. I’m anxious to know just what happened. Do. me the favor.”

“AU right. Then you'll go to sleep. Promise?”

“I promise.” Talk. Talk!

“You lost quite a bit of blood... but luckily our blood bank was able to replace that.”

“What?

“Of course. That’s what saved your life.”

I knew.

I was on him with a bound. He had time for just one feeble squeal before 1 shredded him into red ruin. The anger that filled me was not to be measured. I was blind to everything but sheer destruction.

- Feet coming down the corridor warned me. I changed my shape, melted through the closed window, and took myself off to that nether bourne where the Great Prince awaited me.

His glowing eyes were sad.

I dropped to my knees before him as he

apes pas mene cnn sien tn annem seis i aan aD tet arora netantenaphOonLARCS SAA

s Insure Your Children s NOW! Costs so very little! If you have children, or ig-aee sieges in your family, now is the time to protect each one ef them with an marriadal Payeaeier (Budget Pian) Life Insurance Policy! In addition to regujar benefits for Loss of Life, this remarkable Insurance also provides Double Indemnity, Total ty, Cash Surrender Value, Extended Insurance and other liberal Benefits.

You choose the price of Policy and size of Benefits. Pay only 50 a week for single Benefits —i0e for double Benefits—i5e for triple, and so on. No Medical Examination—no coltectors. SEND NO MONEY. Write for details TODAY! PIONEER LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY 1911 Insurance Exch. Bidg. © Rockford, fil.

‘SONGWRITERS

SONGS PUBLISHED MONTHLY. ADVANCE ROYALTY. Send your Songs or poems today for our exciting offer. FREE book oa song writing to subscribers, Don't miss this opportunity.

HOLLYWOOD TUNESRITHS ‘“foctwcon se, cerotn, ‘Aigh School. Course:

5°Many Finish in 2 Years

: Goasramaiy as & equivalent to reed

a8 Sandan alr od. schoo! education is very, important for adv: t pesinees istry aud soouny2 t be bandicepped all your | AGSE: se Shae quamig, Sut em mae now Boe we American School, Dept. H- 938, Drexel at 58th, Chicago37

REFRIGERATION aHd ‘AIR CONDITIONING.

MECHANICAL units everywhere need servicing. Soonnew units willrequire Y installation service, Youcanbeready © with reliable pay - knowledge of this

h big income field. Unique home study-plus | i actual practice plan prepares you to ember

servicing or installing field or get into busiess of your own. Great bach now

UTILITIES ENGINEERING INSTITUTE Dept. E-3,,1314W.Belden Av. Chicago14,I,


MEN

This Horseshoe Ring, Handmade,

Hand-engraved, inlaid with si — lated pearl, is

KNOCKOUT! Shoe andshank of

everlasting Monel Metal is

GUARANTEED 20 YEARS

Supply is limited... act now. SEND NO MONEY with eedee pees name and: ring size. Pay on arrival, tax pacudeds ONLY $3.98, NOT one cent extra for anything! Return in five ae fe refund if not delighted. Address: NATIONAL JEWELRY CO. Dept. 412-H Wheeling, W. Va.

BUY FROM THE OLDEST ESTABLISHED "FIRM IN-THE UNITED STATES SELLING sEYE GLASSES BY MATL

ce ice of the LATEST STYLES—remertably LOW PRICES. ATISFACTION GUARANTEED or your money back. If you are mot satisfied—they will not cost you a cent.

‘SEND NO MOREY cts for FREE catalos toden

our many styles and LOW PRICES

“ADVANCE SPECTACLE CO: 3r *$<Dearborn St.

MEN REPAIRED ay Low cost

Chicago, ub.


oam== For Musical Setting ==

Mother, Home, Love, Sacred, Patriotic, Comic or any subject. Don’t Delay— Send us your §,

Original Poem at once— for immediate examination and FREE Rhyming Dictionary.

RICHARD BROTHERS ~ Enieacoriiie i WAS AN «ALCOHOLIC

I know the misery from the curse of drink; the agony to loved ones, the loss of happiness, money, health, job.. BUT I know how to break the spell of whiskey. Write today... tell me your problem. Get the answer! NEWTON, NF12, P. O. Box 861, Hollywood, California.

J,


“Checked in a J/FFY.

Relieve itching caused by eczema, << lete’s foot, seabbies, pimples and other itching conditions. ‘Use cooling, medi cated D.D.D. Prescription. Greaseless, stainless. Soothes, comforts and checks ftching fast. 360 trial bottle proves it— or money back. Don’t suffer. Ask your druggist teday for B.D. B. Prescription.


shook his head. “I am sorry, loyal one. +e

"sorry.

“But it wasn’t my fault.”

“I know. I know. It is the order of things. It cannot be changed—even by me.”

“That blood...’

“Yes, loyal one. It means you cannot come back: again. You must go back to the Earth.”

“For... for how long, Great Prince?”

“For all time!”

“Never to come back... never?”

His eyes were sorrowful. “You will return to Earth, loyal one. You will remain there—forever. You are immortal. You can still serve me faithfully... but you cannot return. It is the law. Immutable.”

“Tell me, Great Prince. Will I still retain the powers and the talents you have given me?”

“Yes. That is what I meant when I told you that you could still continue to serve me;

“One jast favor, Great Prince.”

TASK it.

“The power to enter the body of those who are well. Not to take the place of a departing soul, but to be able to enter the human form of any one... to control them from within... to force them to my will... to have this complete power throughout all Eternity.”

“Granted. That is within the Rules.”

| TOOK one long, last look around and then I left. 1 have been back on Earth now for about a month, I have not been idle. Do you wonder why I have told you all this? Do you wonder that I have taken the time and trouble to outline my career? But surely you must have suspected. You are no fool.

Remember that I am immortal.

Does that mean anything to you?

Think.

Think of the hundred... thousand... ten thousand... hundred thousand... million... thousand million... billion...° trillion years I have in which to serve the Great Prince.

Think of your Earth. Think of the people that crawl upon its surface. Now narrow it down. Narrow it to your own hemisphere... to your own country... to your


own state... to your own city, town or village... to your own house... To yourself. Let us be sensible about it. absolutely no way out for you.

There is Of course,

you can argue that, with the population of,:

your Earth consisting of numberless millions, it is possible for me to miss up on you during your lifetime.

That is not logic. It is specious reasoning.

I admit that you have as good a chance as any one in dying before I get to you. But —haven't you noted bow I upon my immortality?

If you will forgive my feeble humor, remember that I have all the time in the World.

Suppose I don’t get to you... personally. You still cannot escape me. Repeating that I have enough time to get around to evetyone eventually should stir the chords of understanding.

Get it?

Your descendants.

If not this generation, then the next. If not this century, then the next. If not this eon, then the next. It is of no importance to me whether I get to you directly or through your descendants. The important thing is that—without any possible chance of failure—I’m going to get at you somebow.

I can be your cab driver. I can be the policeman on the corner. I can be the barber who shaves you. I can be the person who gives you your next job.

I can be the next person to ring your door-bell...

* * * *

Buy Victory Bonds...

For Postwar Prosperity

* x * *

have harped).


nome 7O MOUNT BIRDS ~~

7 Auimais, Heads, Fishes, Pets; to TAN, Be a Taxidermist. Profit and FUN.

ees pave: yourvaluable TROPHIES, oun! equi: everything. Learn to # B eves or lege "a Set Sia Prov ey ve ps mounting for others. INVESTIGATE

We @ FREE BOOK Sith 100 Soe NOW absolutely FREE. Write TODAY. Send Postal TODAY for FREE BOOK. State AGE. H.W. SCHOOL OF TAXIDERMY, Dept, 2039, Omaha, Neh


Place your songs with us. Melodies supplied WITHOUT CHARGE by well known Hollywood composers. We record your song and make it presentable to the publishers. Lead sheets and records furnished. Send your song material for free examination. Write for

8. CINEMA SONG CO Dept. H-7

P. ©. Box 670 Beverly Hills, Callf.


“NUBSE DENCKER’S HOMS TREATMENT” This ointment affords soothing and palliative reliet for leg sores and other surface lesions. It does not interfere with daily work. Thousands of users enthusiastically report favorable results from “Nurse

R E Ee Dencker's Home Treatment.” Write for F Free Trial and reports of results from enTRI thusiastic users. Send today. Deneker

AL Products, Dept. 399-C, Leng Beach 1, Calif.

Offers Bie Money—Independence

If you are mechanically inclined—can hold and use tools it will pay you to learn electrical appliance repairing. @perate from your

garage, basement, etc. Work as many sears as you wish—the appliance repairman is his own boss. any types of repairs

it is usual for a reat to charge on "to basis of $5.00 to 09 an. hour!

No Previous ‘Experience Needed

Profusely iNustrated our new course shows you in simple, easy to understand language plus drawings and photographs, how to make each repair on refrigeratcrs, vacuum cleaners, washing machines, motors, fans, irons, etc., etc. Explains and gives you a working knowledge of electricity, welding, nickel plating, cic. Shows you how to build the power tools you need and how to solicit and kecp business coming to you. Not a theory course but an honest to goodness practical course written by and usted by repairmen the country over, Price of course ts so low that the savings on your own household appliances will pay for it. Act NOW! Send today for FREE literature. Christy Supply Co., 2835 N. Central Ave., Dept D-412, Chicago 34, Illinois.


RREST HIM, OFFICERI

LHAVE COMPLETE FACTS ON THE OTHER j FELLOW TONIGHT!

eeret Service Operator No. 88 Is om

the pee ate 'W HIM through all excitement of his chase after the. Write NOW for Confidential

FRE

No. 38 Made to oe Chief?

apportonte for YOU 8 a8 St eit pnd

Sson'd ties, Pasitement! Travell Theil ary 8. >< en ve.

atk REGULAR: MONTHLY salar 'REwanD MONEY. 68% ot all Identification Bureaus in U.S. emepyrite ~for Free Reports, Finges

Sr AS. peasants eis eeieiet

SRGGe Aa EEG su we corti Sonic ik Gee, INSTITUTE OF APPLIED SCIENCE 920 Sunnyside Ave., Dept. 15469-B, Chicago 40, Illinols


Fo be set to music. Send your song poem today for free examination by our staff headed by nationally Yamous hit composer of “DREAM A LITTLE DRHAM OF ME.” Our new 6 step plan is most liberal and eomplete ever offered. Write today for free booklet.

SCREENLAND RECORDERS Dept. N Hollywood 28, California

10K GOLD RINGS GENUINE DIAMONDS

Wi These Bings contain Genuine Diamonds,

mounted in solid 10K yellow Gold. We offer

8& 10-day trial—satisfaction or your Money

Back! For a limited time enly — $5.49 each

or the “Bridal Pair’ Only $9.95 plus tex,

Ray Send No Money—when your Rings arrive, See pay postman. Act Now! Genuine Diamonds,

‘4 solid Gold rings. Gift box free,

yy, VICTORY DIAMOND OO.

1 ae Dept. NF-10 Wheeling, W. Va.

CAZINES 5 AND

ma

-BACK-DATED,)

Magazines of ali publishers, Bargain prices.

‘Western— Romantic—Movie—Detective—Sports—Comics—aAviation— Radio— Photography— Physical Culture— Snappy —Art— Foreign— Technical—etc. Also books, booklets, subscriptions, pin-up photos, ete. Before ordering send i for catalogs to cover mailing charges., Dime refund on first ord

CICERONE'S MAGAZINE ee 863 First Avenue Dept. 10

New York 17 N. Yj

po YOU WANT.TO

Banish the eeavine for tobacco ag thousands have. Make yourself free and i py with Tobacco Redeemer. ‘or free booklet telling of ine pate, effect of tobacco and of a treatment which has rer lieved many men. REE 30 Years in Business doe bras NEWELL COMPANY 0 Clayton Sta., St. Louis, Mo. STUDY AT HOMB for Personal Success and Larger Warnings. 36 years expert instruction — over 108,000 students enrolled. LL.B. Degvee awarded, All text material furnished. Easy payment plan. Send for FRED BOOK—“Law and ‘ Wxecutive Guidance,” NOW!

AMERICAN EXTENSION SCHOOL OF LAW Dept. 60-N, 646 M. Michigan Ave.. Chicago fi, Uf,


Collectors’ Items H® is an interesting point made by Jack

appears in

Snow whose yarn, “Seed,” this issue of WEIRD TALES.

The Bible of all alert book dealers in the United States, Great Britain and many other lands, Publishers’ Weekly, features a section wherein book dealers may advertise for tare and out-of-print books wanted by their customers. Each week thousands of dealers scan these listings. Noting books they have in stock, they describe and quote them via penny postcards to the seeking dealers.

The above is a preamble to an incident which will delight H. P. Lovecraft’s many readers and admirers. For in the July 7, 1945, issue of Publishers Weekly a New York book dealer listed among books he is searching for “The Necronomicon” and Ludvig Prinn’s ‘‘Mysteries of the Worm’’—mythical volumes invented by Lovecraft and mentioned in a number of his most popular stories. Certainly these are the two rarest of all out-of-print books—for they have never been in print! August Derleth, Robert Bloch and Henry Kuttner will peony enjoy this since they have carried on the Lovecraft mythos by mentioning these legendary volumes in their stories in WEIRD TALES.

I am sure this tribute to Lovecraft will be of much more interest to WEIRD Tags readers than anything I could write concerning myself or my own story in this issue— so I will just say about ‘“‘Seed’”’—that it is my canary’s favorite food! Jack Snow

Thanks, Jack. And by the way, in answer to numerous readers’ inquiries, we are pleased to pass along the information to all Oz fans


among WIRD TALES customets that the new | Oz book—"The Magical Mimics in Oz’ — | by Jack Snow, and based on the famous Oz

books by L. Frank Baum, will be published

early this spring.

Transference of Sin

ANLY WADE WELLMAN, who combines a broad and intensive knowledge of matters weird with the born story-teller’s ability to make those matters highly entertaining, has some thoughts for us apropos of his good yarn, “Sin’s Doorway,” in this

issue of WEIRD TALES,

Confides Wellman:

Whatever the merits or successes of the custom of sin-eating at a funeral, it was once widely practised and still hangs on here and there. I gather that it is Anglo-Saxon usage, but the belief in transference of sin is universal—vide the Scapegoat ceremony described in Holy Writ. Similar rites ate noticed in The Golden Bough as occurring in every part of the world.

As to gardinels, I have but one informant about such things. He’s convinced that they exist, and plenty of them, and he has slowed me up considerably in any impulse I may feel to enter strange empty houses.

Things like these are apter to bob up in the American South than anywhere else. It’s a witch-ridden and devil-haunted place, and many a tale not told by Uncle Remus is offered you there for the truth. And it’s easy to disbelieve such things when you're a newcomer and know no better. When you've been there a little while, you may have | tain facts proven to you, and it’s seldom a pleasant proof. I, for one, wouldn't take the responsibility for more sin than my own soul carries, not for all the dollars in Dixie.

Manly Wade Wellman

FRU TTT ATA A EE TS Te

READERS’ VOTE SATAN’S PHONOGRAPH PIKEMAN

THE Be re ees OF MME. GAM

ALL THE rine cn THE WORLD

KURBAN

CHARIOTS OF SAN ER oO



Here's a list of nine stories in this issue. Won't you fet us know which three you consider the best? Just place the numbers: 1, 2, and 3 respeetively against your three favorite tales—then clip it out and send it to us.

WEIBD TALES New York City 20, N. ¥.


9 Rockefeller Plaza

NG GU CEE OLED RR Se EP

.

Me eer tara cr nee tm in mine nnn Mt



RELINED AND TIGHTENZD AT HOME $1

lower dentures, Really makes them fit as they should without using powder. Easily applied. No heating required. Brush it om and wear your plates while itsets. It adheres to the plates only and makes a comfortable, Smooth and durable surface that can be washed and scrubbed. Each application fasts for months. Not a powder or wax. Contains no rubber or gum. Neutral pink color. Scld on MONEY-BACK GUARANTEE. Not sold in stores. Mail $1 for generous supply, brush and directions aad we pay postage. New Postage Rates —C.O.D. orders $1.24. DENDEX CO., 2714S. Hill St., Dept. 72-G, Los Angeles7, Cal.

do you WORRY:

worry and suffer any i Ole if we can help you? Try a Brooks Patented At Cushion. This marvelous eppliance for most forms of gf reducible rupture is GUARAN- @ TEED to bring YOU heavenly comfort and security—day and § gight—at work and play—or it

costs you NOTHING. Thousands happy. Light, neat- ating No hard For men, women, and children.

pee or gaes—]

Sent on trial to prove it. Not sold in reese. * aware of imitations, Write for Free Book on exgaery ht no risk trial order plan, and proof of results. All Core respondence Confidential.

Brocks Company, 351° State St., Marshall, Mich.


The writer of “BOOTS AND SADDLES” and other song

hits will compose the melody for your song poem. Never

has such an opportunity been offered new writers. Send

your song poems and lyrics for FREE examination. Write

for details and FREE INSTRUCTIVE BOOKLET. HOLLYWOOD HARMONY HOUSE

126 South La Brea STUDIO R-9 Les Angetes 36, Calif.

DON’T GET UP NIGHTS

If you get up many times at night due to Irritation of Bladder or Urinary Tract, try PALMO TABLETS at our risk if you have never used them. We will send you a full-size package from which you are to use 20 Tablets FREE. If not delighted at the palliative relief you enjoy, return the package and you owe us nothing.’ Send No Money. Write today and we will send your Palmo Tablets by return mail.

H. D. POWEB CO., Dept, 107-A, 120 Greenwood Ave. Battle Creek, Mich.

Free for Asthma

If you suffer with attacks of Asthma so terrible you choke and gasp for breath, ff restful sleep is impossible because of the struggle to breathe, if you feel the disease is slowly wearing your life away, don’t fail to send at once to the Frontier Asthma Co. for a free trial of a remarkable method. No matter where you live or whether you have any faith in any remedy under the Sun, send for this free trial. If you have suffered a lifetime and tried everything you could learn of without relief; even if you are utterly dis~ couraged, do not abandon hope but send today for this free trial, It will cost you nothing. Address

FRONTIER ASTHMA CO., 225-8 Frontier Bldg. 462 Niagara St., Buffalo 1, M. Z


i eerie DON’T LOSE AT DICE!


Write for free literature and detaile on sensational new book which reveals the methods, techniques and betting systems professionals use to take your money. It costs nothing to get free literature. Write for it. Mailed promptly in plain envelope. Also magic dice and cards. Write H. Wayne Bock Co, Dept. AG, 717 W. Grove, Pontiac, tL


the Hawailan way. Surprise and entertain our friends. Our simple method makes learning to play music as fascinating as @ P game. Shows you in pictures how te do ft.: Previous mustcal training unnecessary. Karn while learning be new plan. You pay for lessons as they are received.. Write today for free inforLEARN TO PLAY THE

lib

mation. A postcard will do. (Fing 25¢ guitars supplied $7.50 and up.) PER HAWANAN GUITAR INSTRUCTION LESSON Pp. 0. Box 163, Dent. K-45, Maywood, ME


PENNIES WANTED Witt $109 EACH ine CERTAIN

PAY Indian Head

ee iene ‘ OLN PENNIESE -

-00; Nickels $500.00; Dimes $1,000.00 All rare coins, bills, st i d Catalogue showin: the sd Send (9e for Ulustrated FEDERAL COIN EXCHANGE, f1-NF, Columbus 5, Ohio


Books by Lovecraft, Merritt, Quinn, etc., rented by maiL 8c a d plus postage. Write for freo list. WEREWOLF LENDING LIBRARY, 7203 Travel! Bivd., Pittsburgh, Pa.

ot



Buy a share in America

Invest in your country and help win the peace.

Get the Victory Habit — buy Victory Bonds and Stamps

every pay day.

United States VICTORY BONDS AND STAMPS

He kK EME KK MEME KK REAR ARK KKK MRM RK MEK K KKK KK KKK KK KK KKH HK HH




New York 20, Ney;

Write to MARTIN WARE, SECRETARY

© This is your club—a medium to help you and other fantasy and science-fiction fans get together. Readers wanted it—they wrote in telling us how much they would enjoy meeting others of similar tastes.

@ Membership is very simple: just drop us 2 Eine, so that we can enroll you on the club roster. and publish your name and address in the magazine.

© A membership card carrying the above design —personal token of your fellowship with the weird and the fantastic—will be sent on request. (A stamped, addressed envelope should be enclosed.)

(EEEEDEAGUADDREDERDERBDEEBEGHGEUNOUSQERREOQNCEREDERLEEREPEREBEOE:


Henrietta Bruce, Box 141, Homerville, Georgia

Kathlean Anderson, 77 Park Street, Gloversville, New York

Eleanor Nenis, Box 11, Fort Mill, South Carolina:

Carroll Case, Jr., 678 Harris St., Concord, North Carolina

Albert Large, 1001144 West Douglas, Wichita 12, Kansas

Louis Chernoff, 1668 East 18th St., Brooklyn 29, New York

Ronald F. Palzen, 8249 N. Karlov Ave., Chicago 41, Illinois

John M. Curry, 10 Perth Avenue, New Rochelle, New York

Rita Schweitzer, 669 East 5th St., Brookiyn 18, New York

Joe Ernst, 8516 Indiana, St. Louis, Missouri

Jack W. Finn, 178 Deeker Plaee, Woodbridge, New Jersey

Jack Bagnoli, 404 Ogden Ave., Jersey City 7, New Jersey

Bileen Kearney, 1818 R. L_ Ave., N. W. Washington 5, D. C.

James Yates, Greenview, West Virginia

Robert Freeman, 120 Rand Avenue, Lexfugton 2, Kentucky

Audrey Shippee, 67 Grange Avenue, Red Bank, New Jersey

Robert Boyer, 248 Rowe Street, Tamaqua, Pennsylvania

Jean Gerretset, 141-12 123 Ave., S, Ozane Park 20, N. Y¥.

Robert Harlick, 831 36th Ave., San Francisco 21, California

L. D. Stevens, 146-14 45th Ave., Flushing, L. I., New York

Peter Data, 812 Hast 8th Street, New York 9, New York

Dick S. Helmer, Oklahoma City, Oklahoma |

Bob Tillotson, ¢/o The Evang Hotel, Hot Springs, So. Dak.

Wesley Jorgensen, 3827 Baring St., Philadelphia, Penzx.

Glenda Merrick, Box 475, St. Anthony, Idaho

Noel Baker, Box 85, Wequetonsing, Michigan

Shiela Adams, 232 East Nittany Ave., State College, Penn.

Mrs. Anne Ferro, 8449 North Elaine PL, Chieago 13, Nlinois

Gilbert Cochrun, Lock Box 835, Claremore, Oklahoma

Hilde Walker, 54 Crescent Street, Yaphank, New York

Mary B. Koledi, 29 Pitt Street, New York, New York

Arline M. Harlow, 175 Naples Rd., Brookline, Massachusetts

Harry E. Adams, PhM 8/c, Box 15, N. A. A. S., Cecil Field, Jacksonville, Florida

Pvt. Robert P. Pavlah, 16157865, Sec. 4, Co. C, 1552 8. U., A. S. T., Ohio State University, Columbus 10, Ohio

E. Lester Johnson, 420 West 66th St., Chicago 21, Illinois

Mrs. Sophie Madalean Binkowski. 511. North Jester Avenue, Dallas 11, Texas

Miss Charlotte Shucard, 1559 East 7th St., Brooklyn 30, New York:

ae pevere Dutchkin, 1561 East. 7th Stree, Brooklyn 80,

ew ork

Thomas R. Cake, 1414 Monterey Aye., Norfolk 8, Virginia

Joseph W. Schenck, 2261 Benefit Street, New Orleans 17, Louisiana:

Mrs. Marion E. Hanglin, & Maple St., Brookline, Mass.

Jeacph BE Hangiin, § Maple St, Brookiine, Massachusetts ee [oe eee eerenoes nel Nase ew Yor'

J. Grossman, 580 West End Ave., New York 24, New York

Bordentown, New Jersey Benjamin F. Esly, Jr., 2601 East Oliver St., Baltimore 1%,

Maryland. BDdward Rallo Fitzgeratd, Lansing, Kans. = b geras Riewald, 345 West 4th St, New York 24,

Freddy A. Rauchfleiser, 526 Hast 110th St, N. B, Cleveland 8, Ohio

Loig Wells, Lennoxville, Que. Can.

John K. Collins, 155 EB. Madison St., Easton, Pa.

J. J. Kramer, 3701 Agatite, Chicago 25, Til.

Raymond Anderson, 70-36 65th Pi., Brooklyn 27, N. ¥.

. M. Dorset, R.F.D. No. 1, Falls Church, Va.

Frederick F. Ladd, Jr., 389 Main St., Amesbury, Mags.

et Coppadona, 24-04 23rd St., Long Island City 2,

Dorothy Boose, 29 Buelah Ave., Hamilton, Ont., Can.

L T. Parker, 522 Avenue K., Dallas 16, Tex.

neces ise 803 Graymont Ave, West, Birming-, Ala.

Jean Wells, 121 Hast Third St., Lafayette, La.

w

We're sorry thet lack of space prevonts tha inclusion befaigr names of al New Members. The rest will aeppow neat time.

STATEMENT OF THE OWNERSHIP, MANAGEMENT, CIRCULATION, ETC., required by the Acts of Congress of August 24, 1912, and March 8, 1933, of WEIRD TALES, published bi-monthly at New York, N. Y., for October 1, 1945, State of New York, County of New York, ss.

Before me, a Notary Public in and for the State and county aforesaid, personally appeared William J. Delaney, who, having been duly sworn according to law, deposes and says that he is the President-Treasurer of SHORT STORIES, INC., Publishers of WEIRD TALES, and that the following is, to the best of his knowledge and belief, a true statement of the ownership, management, etc., of the aforesaid publication for the date shown in the above caption, required by the Act of August 24, 1912, as amended by the Act of March 8, 1933, embodied in section 037, Postal Laws and Regulations, printed on the reverse of this form, to wit:

1. That the names and addresses of the publisher, editor. managing editor, and business manager are: Publisher, SHORT STORIES, INC., 9 Rockefeller Plaza, New York 20, N. Y.; Editor, D. McIiwraith, 9 Rockefeller Plaza, New York 20, N. ¥.; Managing Fditor, None; Business Manooer Sees J. Delaney, 9 Rockefeller Plaza, New York

2. That the owner is: SHORT STORIES, INC., 9 Rocke feller Plaza, New York 20, N.'Y.; William J. Delaney. 9 Rockefeller Plaza, New York 20, N. Y.

8. That the known bondholders, mortgagees, and other security holders owning or holding 1 per cent or more of Heed amount of bonds, mortgages, or other securities are:

one.

4. That the two paragraphs next above, giving the names of the owners, stockholders, and security holders, if any. contain not only the list of stockholders and security holders as they appear upon the books of the company but also. in cases where the stockholder or security holder appears upon the books of the company as trustee or in any other fiduciary relation, the name of the person or corporation for which such trustee is acting, is given; also that the said two paragraphs contain statements embracing affiant’s full knowledge and belief as to the circumstances and conditions under which stockholders and security holders who do not appear upon the books of the company as trustees, hold stock and securities in a capacity other than that of a bona fide owner; and this affiant has no reason to believe that any other person, association, or corporation hag any interest direct or indirect in the said stock, bonds, or other securities than as so stated by him.

(Signed) WiLLIAM J. DELANEY, President.

Sworn te and subscribed before me this 26th day of September. 1945.

{SEAL} (Signed) Henry J. PAUROWSKI.

Notary. Public, Bronx Co. No. 28, Reg. No. 61-P-7. Cert. a ae N. Y. Co. No. 243, Reg. No. 180-P-7.

commission expires March 30, 1947,


4; Golden color Pia | tiny images of delight;

éeed

YANY

SEND NO MGNEY. M Back Gu: 0D) plas postege and tax. ‘Gr, write Ter Be Presa Fors Braceleia, Bilvclds, Channa) cme 3 i oslery, test styles from Rroadway and oitowon

INTERNATIONAL D ND €3, 2251 Calumet Ave. Dept. oe cage 18, Uf

If Ruptured Try This Out

BMiedern Protection Provides Great Comfort and Holding Security

Without Torturous Truss Wearing

An “‘eye-opening”’ revelation in sensible and coifortable reducible fupture protection may be yours for the asking, without cost oF obligation, Simply send name and address to William S, Rice, Inc., Dept. 7-W, Adams, N. Y., and full details of the new and different Rice Metiicd will be sent you Free. Without hard fleshgouging pads or tormenting pressure, here’s a Support that has brought joy and comfort to thousands — by releasing them from Trusses with springs and straps that bind and cut. Designed to pated Rela a pbure up and in where it belongs and yet give Shas fede ee genuine comfort, Wor full information —


TO BE SET TO MUSIC Free Examination. Send Your Poems To

J. CHAS. WicNEIL

A. B. MASTER OF MUSIC Si0-RF Sa Alexandria Los Angeles 5, Calif,

hs Do

IS EPILEPSY INHERITED?

WHAT CAUSES IT?

A booklet containing the opinions of famous doctors Op this interesting subject will be sent FRE, while they last, to any reader writing to the Educational Division, 635 Fifth Ave, Dept. NF-12, New York, N. Yy

SED ondence

Complete HOME-STUDY Courses and self-instruction books, slightly used. Rented, sold, exchanged,

esp cor F Courses All subjects. Satisfaction ~ a guaranteed. Cash paid for

used courses. Full details and 92-page illustrated bargain catalog Free. Write now.

NELSON COMPANY 321 Se, Wabash Avenue, Dept. 2-23, Chicago 4. HL


The Mysterious Influence In The Air You Breathe!

"Tue SOUL OF THE UNIVERSE is in the air you breathe. Deposited in your blood—with each inhalation you take—is the intelligence that directs the course of the planets through the misty reaches of space, and the strange phenomenon of life itself.

What is it that causes your heart to beat, iyour lungs to expand and contract? What mind ditects the cells of your being, each in their purpose—some to create bone, others tissue and hair? What consciousness peevades these vibratory globules of life and gives them awareness of their Cosmic function?

Are you one of the millions who have looked beyond yourself for some external Divine Power or agency? Have you searched in vain for some outer sign or word of Divine assurance when in doubt or in need? Now learn of the ansuspected ee that exists in every simple breath ‘—and that becomes part of you. The ancient ‘Egyptians believed that the essence of life was, borne on the wings of the air. The Bible pro-!

claims that with the first breath man becomes not justan animated being—buta'Viving soul. ’? Try this experiment, and prove a Vital Life Force exists in the air, When you are in pain or despondent take a deep breath. Held it as long as comfostable—then noticethemementarytelief.

This Amazing Free Book

Would you seriously like to know how to draw upon this Intelligence of the Cosmic, with which the air is permeated? You can use it to awaken the creative powers of your mind, and for making life an experience of achievement. Use the coupon belew for a free copy of the book, “The Mastery of Lite.” It tells how in the privacy of your home you may learn to use these simple, useful, adtwral laws.

ASS USE THIS GIFT COUPON —--=5=5 Scribe Z. KC, The Rosicrucians (AMORC)

! Rosicrucian Park, San Jose, California

§ Jam sincerely interested in learning how to use the

! mysterious influences of the uniyerse in the betterment

4 of my life. Please send me a free copy of the book, ‘+ “The Mastery of Life.”

t ' ' t t e H t | NAPE Eastin: eer tens GREER i ADDRESS______ |

t

1 Rosicrucians ave NOT a religious organization

‘THE ROSICRUCIANS (AMORC) SAN JOSE, CALIFORNIA, U.S. A..

PLEASE mention NEWSSTAND FICTION UNIT when answering advertisements

GEE what a build / Didn't it take.a long time to get those muscles

Will You Le Me PROVE | Can Make

No SIR! —ATLAS. Makes Muscles Grow

Fast 7 is

Ot

5 inches of new

**My arms increased 112", chest 21”,

(normal) and 21/2” expanded,'’—F.S.,

For quick results | recommend

Here’s what ATLAS did for ME/


Awarded the title of “The World’s Most Perfectly Developed Man’’ in international contest —in competition with ALL men who would consent to appear against him.

This is a recent photo of Charles Atlas showing how he looks today. This is not a studio picture but an actual untouched pshot.

“Am sending snapshot | showing wonderful progress.""—W. G., N. J.

GAINED

. ‘“‘When I started John Jacobs weighed only 141,

BEFORE me ee

Here’s What Only 15 Minutes a Day Can Do For You ' |

DON’T care how old or young or contraptions to fool with. When you

¢ > ¢ have learned to develop your strength TOU BES OF how ashamed of your through “Dynamic Tension,” you can present physical condition you laugh at artificial muscle-makers. You may be. If you can simply raise simply utilize the DORMANT muscleyourarm and flex it Ican add SOLID pase le youn om eed elven Baayen + ss oe ~ increase and multiply jouble-quicl een ae aniees = “Hanel into real solid LIVE MUSCLE, a arm— 2- iq ‘ Pa A 4 ie My method—‘Dynamic Tension”’—will Only 15 minutes a day—right in turn the trick for you. No theory—every your own home—is all the timeI ask exercise is practical, And, man, so easy!

es

of you! And there’s no cost if I fail. Spend only 15 minutes a day in your own I can broaden your shoulders, strengthen Heme, Brom une vers. fone you'll i your back, develop your whole muscular system Penson’ aime uncomeouly fe 7 D B an JTSIDE can add inches to i f — s your chest, give you a vise-like grip, make Ls me | CHARLES ATLAS, Dept. 912

those legs of yours lithe and powerful. I can shoot new strength into your old backbone, ASCHN end WAPALIEL

115 E. 23rd Street, New York, 10, N. Y.

I want the proof that your system of ‘‘Dynamic

B ise those i » hh m ges o 2 your body $5 ful ob pb, viane ser enigaed FREE BOOK ane rat ey paake a Pa Mae ee ey ie itali v yon” ‘; vi ‘ a@ hea y, husky ody anc g, 4 ar de is Titanding room” left for weakness and that "Everlasting Health ment, Send me your free book, ‘Everlasting Health lazy feeling! Before I get through I’ll have and Strength and Strength.

your whole frame ‘‘measured’”’ to a new, In it I talk to you in straightbeautiful suit of muscle! from-the-shoulder language.

pate, with po eecsen: Bie tures of myself and pupils—felWhat’s My Secret? lows who became NEW MEN in

. strength, my way. Let me show “Dynamic Tension!’? That’s the ticket! The you what I helped THEM do. See

NGI aor. eget on aeie caine oie SH aE OS secese

I I! I

el

identical natural method that I myself devel- what 1 can do for YOU! For a BSREGEN ss ciscans SmNinAiesainke NaiRG tee SONIA He oped to change my body from the_ scrawny, real thrill, send for this book vA N

skinny-chested weakling I was at 17 to my today. AT ONCE. CHARLES ] Cit tine 7 Statpresent euper-man physique! ‘Chousands: of ATLAS, Dept, 912, 115 Bast Yo veeseeeeseeeeereeee (if ANY). sees Stat verseeees other fellows are becoming marvelous physical 23rd_ Street, New York 10, Ol Check here if under 16 for Booklet A, specimens—-my way. I give you no gadgets N. XY. Pee ee ne ee a se



CASH BENEFITS 8/6 ENOUGH To Be WORTHWHILE!

100.00

‘740000 pOODLO

SICKNESS._BENEFITS! Policy pays for loss of time due to sickness, a regular monthly income for as. long as 3 months, up to.

ACCIDENT BENEFITS! Policy pays for accident disability. at rate up to $100 per month, for as long as 24 months, or

ACCUMULATED CASH!

Policy pays for accidental loss of life, limb or*’sight up to

$4,000, accumulated to.... SICKNESS, ACCIDENT

PLU and MATERNITY D/TALIZATION PLAN sara a

Policy pays “hospitalization benefits’’ for sickness, accident or ‘maternity, including hospital room at rate of $5.00

per day, ‘operating room, anaesthesia,

drugs, dressings, laboratory, X-ray, oxy- $

gen tent and other services, even ambulance service. Total hospital benefits as

specified to over s

The SERVICE LIFE INSURANCE CO. 450-U Siias, * OMAHA 2, NEBRASKA


CASH for Almost Every Emergency!

Now, added millions can afford all-around insurance protection. Here

is a combination SICKNESS, ACCIDENT & HOSPITALIZATION! policy for just a dollar a month that pays in’ strict accordance with its

provisions for ANY and ALL accidents, ALL the common sicknesses,

even non-confining illness and minor injuries. It pays disability benefits from the very first day. NO waiting period! NO this is not the

usual “limited” policy. It’s an extra-liberal policy that provides quick

cash to replace lost income, pay doctor and hospital bills, for medicines

and other pressing demands for cash that ‘invariably come when

sickness or accident strikes.

POLICY ISSUED By Mai! AT BiG SAVINGS! NO MEDICAL EXAMINATION!

Ages 15 to 69. Actual policy sent by mail for 10 Days, Free Examination. NO cost! NO obligation! NO salesman will call! See this policy and judge for yourself. It’s the protection you need and should have at Desplat £1, a price you can afford. Just mail coupon below! But Ce

do it today. Tomorrow might be too late!

The SERVICE LIFE INSURANCE CO.

450-U Service Life Bldg., Omaha 2, Nebraska

SEND without cost or obligation your extra-liberal **Gold Seal’’ $1-A-MONTH Policy for 10 Days’ Free

Inspection.

WANE iret ciacmniniericiooi saaie dooms aneeee be ADDRESS.........00ceecceeceeeeeeees AGE sic CIEVAcsis nicGaa tees as Pere SUAT Bends 20 BENEFICIARY.....cccccecceceeceeeeeees iaeseand

[THE END]

============================================================
PUBLISHED BI-MONTHLY BY WEIRD TALES, 9 ROCKEFELLER PLAZA, NEW YORK 20, N. Y
by Reentered as second-class matter
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
SUBSCRIPTION RATES: ONE YEAR IN THE UNITED STATES AND POSSESSIONS, 90¢
by Foreign and Canadian postage extra.
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
ENGLISH OFFICE: CHARLES LAVELL, LIMITED, 4 CLEMENTS INN, STRAND LONDON, W.C.2, ENGLAND
by The publishers are not
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
POSSESSION. COPYRIGHT, 1945, BY WEIRD TALES
by Copyrighted in Great Britain. ok
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
ESSENTIAL PROTECTION "I: 2
by PY iporsnes phn
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
PERSON, WHETHER DUÉ TO ILLNESS OR INJURY
by Any recognized Hospital and
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
by Benefits start from the first day.
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
by Your word as to good health of
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
IS YOU—IS FOREVER POISED BETWEEN TWO WORLDS
by When
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
by Do not confuse mere dreams with the faculty to
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
by Rise to the mastery of your zetural faculties.
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
START
by Opportunities ahead are
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
by You must get it
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
MFG
by Equipme
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
by This
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
TIME
by It will not interfere
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
by Includes
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
by Send for this FREE book
============================================================

[THE END]
